{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Segoe UI;}{\f1\fmodern Consolas;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red124\green22\blue22;\red22\green46\blue120;\red150\green70\blue0;\red110\green110\blue110;\red150\green20\blue20;}
\f0\fs24

\pard\sb120\sa200\cf5\i FORMAT SAMPLE -- one scene, reformatted for reading at the table. Compare it to the runsheet brick. Nothing here is hard-wrapped; it breathes.\i0\cf1\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2\sb120\sa200\par

\pard\sb120\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 6.1   THE KILLING FIELD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa220\cf5\i The approach to Forelhost and the guardian fight. Establish the tomb's history; test the party before they set foot inside.\i0\cf1\par

\pard\sb80\sa80\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "The path crests the ridge: Forelhost, the Last Redoubt -- a fortress of black stone fused into the mountain, walls angled like a clenched jaw. The twenty-foot iron gate stands OPEN -- not broken. Opened, as if someone walked out and never closed it.\line\line The ground between treeline and gate is wrong: shallow snow over BONES. Hundreds of ancient Nord skeletons in corroded armor, rotted siege ladders, rusted swords -- the Nordic army died OUTSIDE the walls, failing to breach.\line\line Among the dead, three figures pace: skeletal warriors in Dragon Cult robes, eye-sockets burning cold blue, patrolling the gate. They have done this for four thousand years."\i0\cf1\par

\pard\sb120\sa80\cf4\b\fs26 INVESTIGATE\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120{\cf4\b\bullet\tab}The battlefield  ({\b Magic, Standard}):  no blade wounds -- the army was POISONED. The cult weaponized its own death. This was a bioweapons site from the very start.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120{\cf4\b\bullet\tab}The open gate:  oiled hinges, used within the last few months -- Antoine's way in.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa200{\cf4\b\bullet\tab}The patrols (x3):  a fixed perimeter. They attack anything that enters and do not pursue past the treeline.\par

\pard\sb120\sa80\cf6\b\fs26 COMBAT -- THE ETERNAL WATCH\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li360\ri360\sb40\sa200\box\brdrw15\brdrcf5\f1\fs20
{\b DRAUGR SENTINEL  x3   (TL1 Expert)}\line
HP 30 each   |   DR 6   |   Immune: poison / disease / cold   |   Weak: FIRE (x2)\line
Might 17    Agility 13    Magic 15    Guile 8\line
\line
Atk  Greatsword -- melee, 10 dmg\line
Atk  Frost Breath -- 15 ft cone, 8 cold; Agility save (Standard) for half\line
\line
Undying:  at 0 HP it collapses for 1 round, then rises with 10 HP next turn\line
\tab UNLESS burned, or the skull is crushed (Might, Hard -4, or any fire to the downed body).\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb40\sa80\cf4\b\fs26 WIN IT\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120{\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Fight it -- finish each one with fire or a skull-crush, or it gets back up.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120{\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Fire spells shut down the reassembly entirely.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa200{\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Or skip the fight -- slip the patrol gap ({\b Agility, Standard} vs their Guile 8). Easy.\par

\pard\sb40\sa80\cf4\b\fs26 LOOT\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120{\cf4\b\bullet\tab}3x Ancient Nord Greatsword  (100g each)\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa200{\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Dragon Cult Amulet on the lead Sentinel ({\b Magic, Standard}) -- it is a KEY for the sealed cult doors inside.\par

\pard\sb80\sa200{\cf2\b EXIT ->}  The gate stands open; the corridor descends, the air stale and metallic with a faint sweet chemical smell.   {\b -> 6.2  THE OSSUARY}\par

}
