{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Segoe UI;}{\f1\fmodern Consolas;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Segoe UI;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Consolas;}}
{\colortbl ;\red124\green22\blue22;\red0\green0\blue0;\red110\green110\blue110;\red150\green20\blue20;\red150\green70\blue0;\red22\green46\blue120;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sb60\sa40\cf1\b\f0\fs44\lang9 FIRE B -- THE ROAD & THE BLEEDING STAIR (redraft)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\cf3\i Riften gates -> the foot of the 7,000 Steps -> Ivarstead -> the undercroft of High Hrothgar. The campaign's relaunch: one place, one escalating problem, a clean arc with a curtain. ~3 sessions. Self-contained -- run the whole fire from this file. (Full redraft: Part One reviewed and rebuilt with the GM; Part Two rebuilt to the same craft rules, first GM review pass still to come.)\cf2\i0\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20 \sb60\sa220\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE SPINE (hold these three lines all module)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 This is an INTRODUCTION.\b0  It ADVANCES threads and RESOLVES nothing personal. Saijah chooses NO patron. Gaelen does NOT die. The crossroads is loaded, never fired.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Frame the objective OUT LOUD as THE RITUAL, never as Gaelen's head.\b0  If they think the mission is 'kill Gaelen,' his escape is a robbery. If they know it is 'stop the Unmaking,' his escape is just Thursday.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Secrets that must hold:\b0  Bjorn's speed reads as REJUVENATION, never Dragonborn (no one can sense a Dragonborn -- not even the Greybeards, who have NO special senses of any kind). Ismara stays unwitnessed by the monastery. The two scout dragons' target stays unknowable.\par

\pard\sa140\b Roster on the move:\b0  Davinia (ISMARA fronting -- silver skin), Saijah, Orion. These three are the PCs; everyone else on the cart is a companion NPC. Cart: Bjorn, Mila, Esbern (hidden until Scene 1), Nora, GEAR, Ylva, Varon. Animals: Mable (old, dragon-shaken) + the BLACK MARE (fearless warhorse -- sheet: Npcs/the black mare). Krusp & Danica are GONE to Windhelm.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  BEFORE THE TABLE SITS DOWN: hand Davinia's player Ismara's Note One (The Forelhost Codex -- Ismara's Extract, player handout) at the start of the session. Whether he reads it right then or later is his call -- just get it into his hands. Note One's own discovery (the Concentration ratio) already happened OFF-SCREEN, in the gap between Forelhost and leaving Riften -- no scene needed for it, just hold it as already-true. She had Luna Moth Wing to test with because Bjorn picked some up at a Riften apothecary as part of his usual pre-departure supply run -- background fact, not a scene either.\par
\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  ALFONSO'S STATUS (Ch.24, current): nobody bears him anymore -- Nora saturated toward the Tenancy on telekinetic contact alone, no touch required, and the company stopped physically carrying him after that. He rides the cart and is moved by will when a task needs him, hands off the rest of the time; whoever's turn it is carries him -- currently ORION, since he wielded him for the Grelod kill. Saijah is NOT his bearer: she cannot hold him and keep Kynareth's channel open at the same time, so she has stepped back from him entirely. Route any Alfonso beat below through whoever's actually carrying him at that point in the module, not Saijah by default.\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20 \sb60\sa220\par

\pard\sb120\sa200\cf1\b\fs40 PART ONE -- THE ROAD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\cf3\i A quiet leg doing three jobs: re-introduce Esbern (comedy + strategy), give the table a breath (respite + personal threads), and teach that the dragons own the sky (the hide). Normal physics the whole way.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb120\sa50\cf4\b\f1\fs20 GM RULES -- "TWO SHADOWS" (the dragon hide)\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f1\fs20 THE NOTICE CLOCK -- 6 boxes, starts empty. Not a fight; a hide.\b0\line Two Krosulhah-tier dragons hunt overhead; they tick toward awareness on the\line party's OWN mistakes. 5 COMPLICATION BEATS, each tied to a party asset.\line Responsible character rolls vs an escalating difficulty:\line   Beat 1 Easy(+2) -> Beat 2 Standard(0) -> Beat 3 Hard(-4) -> Beat 4 Hard(-4)\line   -> Beat 5 Very Hard(-6)\line Success: contained, no Notice.   Failure: Notice +1.\line Fumble (nat 20): Notice +2; a dragon banks toward them (next beat one step harder).\line Crit (nat 1): active masking -- Notice -1 (min 0); next beat one step easier.\line PROACTIVE PLAY: every smart move drops the next beat a step or grants Advantage.\line Say YES to cleverness. FAIL STATE (Notice 6): spotted -> they dive. TELEGRAPH the\line unwinnability hard BEFORE this. This full clock is restated again, in Scene 5,\line at the point it actually runs (SESSION SHEET FORMAT rule: runnable means runnable).\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa100\b\f1\fs20 THE FIVE TELLS:\b0  1) MABLE SPOOKS -- Bjorn rolls (animal handling); the Black Mare in harness beside her = one step EASIER. 2) GEAR HUMS -- Saijah/Orion (Guile); GEAR needs PERMISSION to power down. 3) ALFONSO'S ROT-AURA drifts downwind -- Orion (carrying him this leg); auto-success if he pulls the aura tight through the working. 4) A SMALL HUMAN SOUND (Mila's frightened breath) -- Bjorn or Saijah; comforting her IS the roll. 5) HEAT BLOOM -- Davinia/Ismara can sheathe the cart's warmth in cold -- a quiet temptation each time she uses the gift.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20 \sb60\sa220\par

\pard\sa100\b\f1\fs20 Everything above this line is GM prep -- read before the table sits down. Scene 1, below, is where the session actually starts running live.\b0\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 1   THE OPEN ROAD -- and the man in the floor\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i Set leaving Riften. Purpose: the breath, and Esbern's comedy re-entry.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Klimmek's been at the Bee and Barb three days now, telling the room what he saw on the 7,000 Steps (Ch.20-22) -- Bjorn's the one who actually sat with him past the first telling, morning after morning. He's come to see the cart off.\f2\lang1033  [they completely forgot who was there. when esbern spoke ismara made an atmoran ice glaive on her hand and prepared to stab him. he sat up looked around and didnt get to say anything before ismara held the ice blade to his throat. so i went to the indignation of being forgoten he went into the lecture before saying who he was. i irl had to remind them that he existed pulled out chapter 20 of the nararative to prove he was real and existed and orion told him to hide in the cart. he shoves the blade away and lectures them on operatiional security and stuff, insists on knowing whos responsible for checking the cart from now on, they let that be ismaras responsibility he pulls out the map and expalins everything. he over hears the rahgot is gone thing but they didnt volunteer the kohnarik thing at all. saijah clues him in on the dagon cult more and he realizes thats what hes been tracking with the grey twine. they really liked the map. they study that for a while get to talking blah blah blah. then they round the bend towards the kahjit karavan]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "Dawn breaks over Riften in grey harbor-light, gulls crying over the water. You cinch your packs, count your coin twice, and load everything into the cart while Bjorn checks the wheel-pins the way he always does -- twice. Mable stamps her feet in the traces, impatient to be moving. Beside her the black mare\f2\lang1033  [balthazzar]\f0\lang9  stands perfectly still, already watching the road ahead.\line\line Klimmek crosses over while you're still finishing up and walks straight to Bjorn. He doesn't have a speech ready, and he doesn't try to fake one. 'Three days I told that room the same thing,' he says, 'and half of them just wanted me to shut up and drink.' He's grinning now. 'And then you go and put together six of the best Skyrim's got, and you just -- go.'\line\line He turns to the rest of you before Bjorn can answer. 'All of you.' His voice catches on it, and he waves the rest off with a short laugh, scrubbing a hand across his face.\line\line Bjorn takes the offered hand in both of his instead of shaking it. He's grinning too. 'You kept an old man sane the last three days, lad.' He pulls Klimmek into one hard, quick embrace, claps him twice on the back, and steps away. 'Go on. Get that ale finished before it goes flat.'\line\line The gates swing open. You go. Looking back once, Klimmek is still standing there, one hand raised.\line\line The road takes you north into hills gone gold with the turn of the season. The light is thin and clean. The wheels find their rhythm, and mile by mile an old feeling settles over all of you: ease. Full packs. Paid coin. Warm bread from Riften's ovens, still soft in the saddlebags. A road that asks only that you follow it.\line\line Mable plods on. The black mare walks beside her, head high, ears forward, reading the hills the whole way.\line\line Then, from under the cart's floorboards -- muffled by canvas and the false bottom -- a dry old voice says, with enormous dignity: '...Are we far enough now? My legs fell asleep a day ago.'"\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Nobody consciously thought about Esbern since Riften -- but don't assume the TABLE meant to forget him. He genuinely doesn't know whether he was left below on purpose (good tradecraft, out of Thalmor sightlines) or simply forgotten, and his first line should ask that, not accuse it. Play his tone off the table's actual answer, live.\par

\pard\sa140\b ESBERN\b0  (climbing out slow, blinking at the sky like he'd forgotten it existed): "Above deck." A long breath. "I'd nearly forgotten what that felt like." He looks out at the road, the gold hills. "Riverwood road, this time of year. Good traveling weather. We're finally going for that stone."\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If they own up to forgetting him:\b0  \f2\lang1033 [didnt even give a chance they immediatly threatened him when he showed up] \f0\lang9 he doesn't laugh. "Two days. Anyone could have been under that floor instead of me. A Thalmor plant. A corpse." He straightens, meets their eyes. "I have survived thirty years by checking. Every door. Every floor. If none of you are checking, I am riding into a dragon war with people who will get me killed." A beat. "So. Who's checking the cart from now on?"\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If they claim it was intentional cover:\b0  he takes them at their word, and it becomes genuinely funny -- he starts complimenting a plan they didn't actually have, in growing detail, until someone cracks.\par

\pard\sa140\b ESBERN\b0  (if they claim it was deliberate): "The false bottom, the silence, waiting till we were clear of the gates -- very sound tradecraft." Then he keeps going. "The timing, too -- letting the guards lose interest in the cart before you moved, instead of rushing it. Most trained agents don't have that discipline." He's already onto a third point. "And not one of you so much as glanced at the floor the whole ride -- misdirection, in case anyone was reading your faces. Professional work." A fourth: "And no one said my name where anyone could overhear it -- compartmentalization. Most units never manage that." A fifth: "And the pace of it -- slow enough through the gate that no one had reason to look twice, fast enough after that no one could catch up if they changed their mind. I felt every bit of that from the floor. That's controlled." He means every word of it. Then, quieter: "You're good. I picked well." A beat. "Thank Talos for that."\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Once the laugh settles, he reaches back into the false bottom and pulls out the board.   \b -> 2  ESBERN'S WEB\b0\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 [PRODUCTION: SOLVED -- web/esbern_map.html (the GM's build). See the note at the end of Scene 2.]\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 2   ESBERN'S WEB -- the strategic briefing\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i Runs on the moving cart, not a stop. Never a wall of lore -- he shows them the web and they pull answers out of it by touching pins.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "Esbern pins the map to the cart's inside wall -- thirty years of work down under the sewers finally sees the light of day."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sa140\b TWO COLORS OF THREAD, and he is fanatical about never letting them touch.\b0\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 RED THREAD -- the dragons (a war)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\f2\lang1033  [this read aloud is bad, i had to improv so we need to go over it and make it better, this is not a read aloud section, "naming each one like hes counting coins" the fuck is that? thats bullshit. just write out him saying the names you loser. then i expalined why bleakfalls was so important]\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\lang9\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "He taps the first pin, then walks two fingers down the row, naming each one like he's counting coins. 'Five of them. Dragon priests, asleep under five mountains, until they weren't.' He stops on the loose one, hanging off its tomb by a thread. 'This one woke on his own and walked out. You saw the tomb -- empty, no mark on it, like he just stood up and left.' A beat. 'The other four, I don't know yet.' He looks at the blank spaces on the map where their tombs should be. 'That's what the Dragonstone would tell me. Without it, I'm guessing at graves.'"\cf2\i0\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2\b0 Five sleeping priests, each pinned to a tomb: \b NAHKRIIN -- VOKUN -- RAHGOT -- OTAR -- MOROKEI.\b0  Rahgot's pin has been moved OFF its tomb and left dangling (the party's own report from Forelhost: he rose and walked out). Esbern keeps touching it like it's sore.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2\b0 Something that doesn't sit right, and he can't yet say why: the old texts call Rahgot \b the Angry\b0  and Otar \b the Mad\b0  -- priests of fury, not patience. But since they woke, what little word has reached him -- refugees, rumor, a line here and there -- describes calculation instead. Coordination. Rahgot running three operations at once like a general. Otar building quietly in the Reach instead of raging. "Fury doesn't wait," he says, more than once, like it bothers him. "These two are waiting." (He does NOT have KONAHRIK, and he does NOT have the prophecy -- those come from Ismara later, if a player offers Rahgot's tomb. This is the anomaly her information explains, not a blank it fills; he has no way to have suspected a sixth thing existed, and does not.)\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2\b0 Kynesgrove -- the first grave they watched come alive. Dozens of burial mounds in fading ink. And the HOOK: \b blank spaces\b0  -- mounds he knows exist and cannot place. He hates the blanks more than he hates the Thalmor.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 GREY THREAD -- the root-rot (an unmaking)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "His hand moves to the other half of the board, and his voice changes -- rougher, more frustrated. He taps the Eldergleam, the Steps, the Throat, Darkwater Crossing -- four now, each one circled twice in charcoal. 'This isn't the Dragon Cult. I've checked it against every pattern I have for them, and none of it fits.' He stares at the blank space in the middle of the circles, where a name should go. 'I don't know who's doing this. I don't know what they want. I only know it isn't the priests.'"\f2\lang1033  [yeah saijah volunteered her knowledge so esbern put together there are 2 apocalypses, she said it before i got to read this so i modified what was said here]\cf2\i0\f0\lang9\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2\b0 The Eldergleam, corrupted. The 7,000 Steps, bleeding. The Throat of the World, circled twice in charcoal. Darkwater Crossing, consumed -- the same refugees they passed on the road weeks back came from there. NOT ONE thread crosses from grey to red -- and if a player ties them together, Esbern physically stops their hand: "No. Two ends of the world, two different authors. Muddle them and you'll parry the wrong one."\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 WHAT HE SAYS AT THE PINS (in pieces, reacting to what THEY know)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 On the two apocalypses:\b0  "Alduin. The World-Eater\f2\lang1033 .\f0\lang9  He ends this age. A war \f2\lang1033 for the end of the world but a war that \f0\lang9 has a will behind it -- something you can face, fight, kill if you're strong enough." A beat. "The other thing, I can't call a war. I don't know what it wants. I only know the land stays dead after."\f2\lang1033  [didnt get to say this cause saijah volunteered knowledge]\f0\lang9\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 IF THEY MENTION THE MIDDEN'S CRYSTALLIZED CULTIST:\b0  He goes still. "Mythic Dawn." "Two hundred years old. They tried to tear open Oblivion in Dagon's name." He looks at the four circles on the grey thread. "I thought that order was dead. Daedra-worshippers -- Dagon's, specifically. Convinced the Divines are jailers and he's the one who'd break the cage. They murdered Emperor Uriel Septim and his three sons -- with no heir to light the Dragonfires, the ward died, and Oblivion poured straight through the gap. Took another Emperor, Martin Septim, becoming a god to close it."\f2\lang1033  [they didnt mention this but it was still enough for esbern to put together it was the mythic dawn]\f0\lang9\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 On where they're going:\b0  "The Throat of the World is not just \f2\lang1033 a\f0\lang9  holy mountain. It is a PILLAR -- one of the stones that holds the floor of the world up. If the cult cracks it, time itself runs in the cellar. That's what your archer feels."\f2\lang1033  [saijah remembered she was looking for pillars so this played well]\f0\lang9\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 IF THEY SAY THEY'RE HEADED TO IVARSTEAD / THE GREYBEARDS:\b0  he sits back, surprised, and reframes fast, tapping the grey thread. "The monastery? That's not on either thread. That's the OTHER one. The Wall does mention them, eventually -- the Voice matters when a Dragonborn finally stands up -- but that's a later chapter, not this one. Go. I'll mind the pins." He does not try to redirect them toward Bleak Falls; he stays disciplined about the party's own choices, even though the Dragonstone is still the thing he wants most.\f2\lang1033  [saijah framed exactly why they are going there and so this was unecessary esbern was happy to go along for now cause they indicated theyd go to bleakfalls after]\f0\lang9\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 The thing he actually wants\b0  (taps a blank spot): "Bleak Falls Barrow. There is a stone in it -- the Dragonstone -- a map of every dragon grave in Skyrim. Without it we wait for each dragon to find US. Everything we do until we have that stone is a flinch, not a plan." -> Plant it. Don't resolve it. He will say it again the whole campaign.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 IF THEY MENTION RAHGOT'S TOMB -- player-driven, do not fish for it\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Fires ONLY if a player -- almost certainly Davinia's, since Ismara holds the memory -- volunteers what the carving in RAHGOT'S tomb actually showed: five priests, a sixth mask above them called KONAHRIK, and the line "when the five become one, the faithful shall ascend." Do not prompt, hint, or have Esbern ask leading questions toward it; this is entirely the player's to offer or withhold, and it's the player's telling, not yours -- never script Ismara's words. The carving is cryptic on its own -- an old prophecy about a mask, nothing that announces itself as a secret. What breaks it open is that it resolves the anomaly he's already noticed and cannot yet explain (Rahgot and Otar's reputation for fury, set against their patient, coordinated behavior since waking), and he does the interpretive work himself, live: not her handing him a conclusion, him reaching one.\f2\lang1033  [i just let him have overheard this in the cart so he already knew about rahgot to save time]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "His hands stop. They've been moving pins and twine the whole ride, and now they just stop.\line\line 'The exact words. As close as you can hold them.'\line\line He picks up Rahgot's pin, turns it over once in his fingers, sets it back down where it was hanging.\line\line 'Rahgot the Angry. Otar the Mad. That's what I was taught, forty years ago, off men who'd actually seen them fight. Fury. Priests who broke doors down because they couldn't stand to wait behind one.' A pause, longer than the last. 'And every report I've had since they woke says the opposite. Rahgot running three fronts like he's planning a siege. Otar building in the Reach instead of burning it. I told myself grief changes a man.' He shakes his head. 'Grief doesn't change a man like that.'\line\line He sets the pin down properly this time, hanging straight.\line\line 'The faithful shall ascend. I read that a hundred times and thought it was a hymn. It's an order.' He's quiet a moment, working through it out loud. 'They're not just waiting for him to come back. They're waiting for him to open something. And when it opens, they mean to go through it too.'"\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  THE STRATEGIC WEIGHT: everything he's told them about "the dragons are one united war" just got more dangerous, not less -- possibly a coalition that plans to turn on itself, which means stopping Alduin and stopping the priests may not be the same fight, and could even cut against each other before the end. Do not resolve this now; it's a live thread for later.\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE FOLLOW-UP\b0  (real beat, player-driven): he asks, quietly, not suspicious, just aware of what he's holding now: "How do you know this." What Davinia's player has her answer -- everything, nothing, a version -- is hers entirely.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  OPEN THREAD, not resolved here: knowing this makes Esbern a bigger target than he already is. Flag it; don't spend it in this scene.\par
\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Esbern is the lore-dump risk incarnate. NEVER let him monologue -- cut him off with a complication, a question, a beat of Ylva groaning. The clue is in the conversation, never in the dump.\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 [PRODUCTION: SOLVED. The briefing IS a real interactive map -- web/esbern_map.html (the GM's own build: draggable pins, physics twine, note cards, the Konahrik unlock toggle), being integrated into the player app. Run this scene with it on screen; the players pull answers out of it by touching pins, exactly as staged above.]\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Dusk finds lantern light around the road's next bend.   \b -> 3  THE TENT FAIR\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 3   THE RESPITE -- Ahkari's tent fair\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i A deliberate breath. Warmth, color, the world being alive. NO threat.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The road bends around a stand of gold-leaved aspens and the dusk ahead is full of lantern light. Eight tents stand pitched off the verge in a rough ring, dyed saffron and sea-green, patched so many times the patches have patches. A cookfire burns at the center. Rugs are laid out between the tents with goods on them: stoppered bottles in rows, bundles of dried herbs hanging from the tentpoles, blades with a deep southern curve, forged somewhere the trade roads run warmer.\line\line Pack-frames stand against every tentpole, the shoulder straps worn pale and smooth -- the wear of real weight, carried a long way, on foot.\line\line A Khajiit in a coat of a hundred patches spots your cart and comes across the firelight fast, already talking, already sizing you up. 'Travelers -- and with horses under you, and a cart behind them! Ahkari has been waiting all day for someone worth the good prices. Sit, sit, look, touch, everything here is friendlier than it looks. Tea while you decide? The tea comes free. It is the buying after that Ahkari is good at.'"\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sa140\b Why the tents\b0  (only if asked; she says it lightly, an old wound worn smooth): the cities do not let Khajiit inside the walls. So they build their own little towns outside them, a night at a time -- a traveling fair of everything the walled markets never stock.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 TRADE -- the exotic fair (reflavored, but every mechanical item cites the Gear list)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Sun's Dust\b0  -- a dried ash-country fungus, sharp and bitter. A FINISHED consumable, ready to use -- not a raw ingredient (GM: treat as a Cure Poison Potion, per the Gear Doc).\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Weeper's Tears\b0  -- a marsh venom in a wax-sealed vial, from bogs south of here. A RAW alchemy ingredient (VENITAS[P], GRAVITAS[S] -- Alchemy GM Reference), not finished; feeds Nora/Ismara's bench.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Moon Sugar\b0  -- sold openly, a normal caravan good. Raw ingredient (GLACIES[P]/FORTITAS[S]/ANIMA[T] -- Alchemy GM Reference). \b Skooma\b0  -- the refined, finished product, sold quieter, a step removed from the open stall. This caravan is deliberately the easiest place in the campaign to find either. [Skooma's dose/addiction effects are a separate design item, not yet built -- do not adjudicate a first use until that's written.]\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 A handful of Rare Curios\b0  (genuinely Khajiit-caravan stock, priced accordingly -- full stats inline, no lookup needed): \b Alocasia Fruit\b0  (AGILITAS[P], VITALIS[S] -- Shivering Isles fruit, quick and vital), \b Bog Beacon\b0  (ANIMA[P], FORTITAS[S] -- a glowing marsh-growth), \b Comberry\b0  (VENITAS[P], ANIMA[S] -- sharp-flavored, spirit-adjacent), \b Marshmerrow\b0  (VITALIS[P], VENITAS[T] -- restorative, with a faint bite), \b Saltrice\b0  (VITALIS[P], AGILITAS[T] -- Morrowind staple grain, restorative). Ahkari can name where each one is from if asked; she likes explaining her own stock more than most of what she sells.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Two curved blades, two tiers:\b0  an \b Elsweyr Saber\b0  (Tier 3, \b 6 damage, Flowing Strike\b0  -- Gear Doc), common enough on the trade routes to be an exotic-but-findable good; and, held apart from the rest of the stock, an \b Imga Longblade\b0  (Tier 5, \b 12 damage, Flowing Strike, TWO-HANDED\b0  -- great-ape-forged in Elsweyr's deep forests; an Imga's one-handed grip is a human's two-handed one, priced as the legendary piece it is -- Gear Doc). Ahkari will demonstrate the curve is not decoration on either.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 An exotic hunting bow\b0 , strung with something that is not gut -- mechanically a Tier-3 bow (\b 9 damage, Envenomed\b0 : apply a poison as a Free Action instead of a Minor); Ahkari will not say what the string actually is.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Paralysis Poison x2\b0  (Rare) -- on a successful hit, the target makes a Might roll or is Paralyzed, losing their next turn completely. "The good kind, from a woman near Hammerfell who owes Ahkari a favor she will not explain."\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 A coin that's always warm\b0  -- no mechanical effect at all, priced as a curiosity. Pure flavor; sell it as a keepsake, not a magic item.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2\b0 Road food, arrows for Saijah, fair-ish prices. Haggling is social, not a fight.\line\line\f2\lang1033 [you really failed me here. you put things into the run sheet that required i go look in a different doc for the answeres. you left out vital information. i had to make things up in the moment. note alocasia fruit now has a primary vitalis property cause i had to make things up. the swords you just said they were there you didnt list the items the properties and stats for the players. poor work on your part. the haggling went well otherwise they loved the tea it is saffron lavender tea. saijah bought the envenomed bow. orion tried to sell some stuff but decided not to like the dwemer centurion crystal eyes, ismara bought the imga longblade. a two handed curved sword, she also bought lavender and alocasia fruit as well as the suns dust potion"\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa140\b ESBERN, at the curved blades:\b0  the caravan doesn't carry the Blades' own Akaviri-tradition steel -- but Esbern still crosses over to look, turns one over in his hands, and gets quietly, genuinely interested in the craft. "Not our old style. But whoever ground this edge understood the same thing we did." A small, real beat -- not a purchase, not a lead, just an old scholar recognizing a cousin discipline.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 THE TRADE OF INFORMATION (this IS how Ahkari knows things -- play it as the mechanism, not a random trade)\f2\lang1033  [i just used this as a way for ahkari to have things to say to the players when she talked to them just sort of made her a gossip, which is good they gave her some info too like details about krusp and danica and that they were going to ivarstead to solve that problem happened out of order some during shopping some with saijah in the down time at camp when saijah tried skooma and became addicted to it]\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\lang9\par

\pard\sa140 She raises a rumor, and then she PROBES -- she wants more on that exact topic, not a swap of unrelated gossip. This is the actual demonstration of how a Khajiit caravan ends up holding better information than half the holds: not magic, just always asking the follow-up question. Pick or roll one to open with, then react live to what the table gives back before moving to the next.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 HER RUMORS (each one is an opening, not a statement -- she follows up on whichever one lands)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 1-5, IVARSTEAD:\b0  "Ivarstead is emptying. Half the village ran. Something's wrong with the TIME up the steps -- a pilgrim walked three days and came down having aged a week." Then, leaning in: "You are headed that way, yes? Ahkari can see it on you. Tell this one what you already know -- Ahkari trades fair for it."\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 6-10, WINDHELM:\b0  "Windhelm sealed its gates. Plague. They say the Stormcloak army is rotting from the inside -- and that two strangers, a grim swordsman and a coughing priestess, walked IN when everyone sane was walking out." [Krusp & Danica, heard as rumor.] Then: "You know them? The swordsman, the priestess? Ahkari heard the names wrong, probably. Ahkari would like them right."\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 11-15, BLACK-BRIAR:\b0  "Black-Briar's looking for someone. Quiet-like." Then, careful, watching their faces: "Ahkari does not ask who, and Ahkari likes her throat where it is -- but if this one already knows who, this one is not asking Ahkari to say it out loud. Just... nod, or don't." [Seeds the Dirge thread without naming it; her follow-up is fishing specifically for confirmation, not more rumor.]\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 16-19, THE SKY:\b0  "The sky's been WRONG east of here. A hunter swore he saw a dragon -- a real one. Two of them. Going toward the Rift." Then: "You have seen the sky too, this one thinks. What did it look like, from under it?" [The scouts, third-hand; the target stays unknowable regardless of what the table says.]\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 20, THE SWORD:\b0  "You've a sword that watches people." She doesn't ask a follow-up on this one -- she looks away fast, on purpose. "No. Don't show Ahkari. Some things this one is happier not knowing." [She has noticed Alfonso. The absence of a question here IS the tell -- some rumors she doesn't want confirmed.]\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 A FIRESIDE STORY (if they sit for one -- Khajiit oral-tradition performance, not a reading)\f2\lang1033  [they loved the story, i had to speed up and skip some parts, and reframe it to be more about kyboh being aloud in the cities. that he was so strong and fast and powerful that he was aloud in the cities]\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\lang9\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\f2\lang1033  [saijah bought skomma it gives unlimited fp for 20 irl minutes. will reduce time and increase dosage required with each time. she also tried moon sugar which gives five fp regen per turn for 20 irl minutes. after trying skooma saijah immediatly bought 3 bottles. addiction mechanic incoming]\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\lang9\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "Ahkari settles onto the crate by the fire, and the caravan children come first -- they always come first -- filling in the ground closest to her knees. She waits until the smallest one is settled. Then she begins, and her voice is not the market voice. It is older and slower, and it carries.\line\line 'In the Rift, south and east of here, there is a wood called Thornheart, and its heart is alive tonight.\line\line A sickness came into that wood once. It went down into the roots and climbed up into the heart-tree, and it made itself a body from what it stole -- bark for its skin, old bone through it like veins, and two wolves of thorn and shadow that slept beneath its feet. It was patient, and it was hungry. It took three woodcutters. Then it took a priestess of Kynareth who had come to heal the trees, and it held all four of them alive inside its trunk, their faces in the wood, and it fed on them the way the sick thing feeds on the well.\line\line Five heroes went into that wood.\line\line The wood did not want them there. It moved its paths behind their backs. It closed the way out and unmade the way forward, and it let them wander until weaker folk would have lain down in the dark. They did not lie down. They learned the wood's own trick -- that it moved when they moved, that it answered what they did -- and they read it the way hunters read a trail, and it brought them, tired and bleeding, to the heart.\line\line The heart-thing rose up to meet them, and their finest blows meant nothing. Fire broke on its bark like water. Arrows turned on the bone. The battle-mage's lance staggered it one single step -- and the ground opened, and the wolves came up out of the earth, and the fight was everywhere at once.\line\line The orc among them saw what the rest could not spare eyes for -- the faces in the trunk, still living. While his companions held the beast and its wolves, he crossed that battlefield and set his blade to the wood-prison, and he cut the first woodcutter free. Then the second. And when he raised his sword to the third -- the priestess -- she found breath enough to beg him: wait. Careful. With the beast roaring at his back and death one heartbeat behind him, that great orc slowed his hands and cut careful, like a mother untangling a child's hair, until she came loose alive.\line\line The beast knew what it had lost. Their lives had been its strength, and its strength was cut away. So it grew -- it poured all its rage into its own body until it stood twice what it had been, and it brought its whole arm down like a felled tree on the one thing standing between it and the priestess.\line\line He had room to run. He stood. One blow, one sound like an anvil rung once, and he was gone -- and the priestess he had freed lived, because he stood.\line\line And she -- barely able to hold her own body upright -- did not run either. She raised Kynareth's ward over the strangers who had come for her and gave the last light in her hands to healing them. And out of the maze came the fifth hero at last, a wizard the wood had swallowed the whole battle long, who had followed the sound of the fight through the dark, and he broke through the treeline with fire in both hands and struck the beast a blow that set it burning.\line\line Then came the small one.\line\line Kyboah. A Khajiit -- like this one, like you, like your mothers and your fathers. No greatsword. No siege-magic. Two hands, wrapped in a fighter's old leather, and every gift the moons ever braided into our people: the speed, the surety, the fall that always lands. He had fought that whole battle already. He was burned and he was bleeding, and what he had left, he spent all at once. He went up -- over the wolves, over the fire, higher than the beast's crown -- and he came down spinning, frost in one hand and flame in the other, and he cut that monster in half. In half, little ones. Crown to root, one stroke, a thing three times his height. It fell in two pieces and went to black sap and dead wood, and the grove stood quiet, and underneath it all the true heart of Thornheart was still beating. It beats tonight. That is his doing.\line\line And the city of Riften heard what he had done for it. And Riften -- stone walls, shut gates, guards who ask our kind to wait outside in the cold -- opened its gate. He walked through the front of it, in daylight, welcomed, while the whole market watched. A Khajiit, little ones. Through the front gate.\line\line The wood is healing. The priestess keeps a temple in the south and prays for him still, so Ahkari has heard. And somewhere under these same two moons that made him quick, Kyboah is walking tonight -- and the moons that made him made every cub at this fire.\line\line Now. To bed.'"\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  She has no idea who's sitting across her fire -- and the table knows what she cannot: Kyboah is dead, and will never hear this. Let both of those sit however they land; do not point at either. [Sourced to Ch.1-2 -- the Battle for the Heart-Tree of Thornheart Grove, the party's founding deed: the Heart-Keeper (bark and bone, two thorn-wolves), the shifting maze; Azura the orc freed all three captives (two woodcutters, then Danica -- who begged him to cut careful, and he did) and died shielding her from the grown beast's killing blow; Danica, freshly freed, raised a ward and healed; Alfonso, lost in the maze the whole fight, arrived at the end and turned it with Fireball -- his first appearance in the campaign; Kyboah finished it with the spinning aerial cleave, every enchantment at once, bisecting the beast. The living heart still holds Dagon's corruption back -- that is WHY the rot has spread no further on this side. Kyboah's welcome through Riften's gate is canon. DAVINIA AND SAIJAH WERE BOTH THERE (Ismara holds the memory even if she doesn't feel it the way Davinia would). Orion was not part of this one. It is actually about the Lanterns, which is the point: this is how the wider world currently remembers them.]\f2\lang1033  [the party actually said who they were so ahkari knew it was the lanterns or at least some of them, ismara made little ice shadow puppets behind ahakari as the story went on as a cute moment, ahkari made eye contact when she said it was the lanterns and that they were strong and brave and had the strongest kahjit among them]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 MILA & THE CARAVAN KIDS\f2\lang1033  [i had the kids go play and act out being the lanterns and doing the fight and stuff, so they heard the story then the party got to see the kids playing as the party, so when mila looked at saijah for permisiion to go play it was them seeing mila play as them, mila chose to be saijah and ismara made a little ice wolf for mila to ride around on and pretend to shoot arrows from]\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\lang9\par

\pard\sa140 Ahkari's people have several children, and they're playing the way kids playing near a caravan fire always do -- underfoot, loud, half a game nobody outside it could explain. Mila watches with the careful hunger of a girl who's never been allowed to join something like that. Bjorn notices first, but he doesn't say anything to her directly -- this is closer to Saijah's kind of moment than his, and he knows it. He just catches Saijah's eye. Whatever Saijah actually does with that -- crosses over, says something, sends her with a word -- is the player's call; Bjorn's part in this is only the notice, not the permission.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  If the table wants to camp WITH the caravan tonight instead of pushing on, that's a live option, not a rail -- Ahkari would welcome the extra coin and the extra watch-eyes. If they take it, fold Scene 4's vignettes into this camp instead of a mile further on; nothing below depends on the exact ground it happens on.\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Camp, a mile on (or here, if they stay). The last easy night.   \b -> 4  THE CAMP VIGNETTES\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 4   DOWNTIME & CONNECTION -- the camp vignettes\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i Fire going, no walls, no Thalmor. Every vignette routes through a PC (Ismara/Davinia, Saijah, or Orion) -- never NPC-to-NPC. Never write a player's line or decision.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 VIGNETTE A -- ISMARA, APART FROM THE FIRE (early evening, camp's edge)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Davinia's player is driving ISMARA directly while she fronts this module -- so this is a PC scene, not an NPC one, and gets a SITUATION, never a scripted line. Ismara has taken herself off from the main fire tonight -- her own choice of ground, not a summons -- Codex open, rapier in reach. Note One (Concentration, and the three basic recipes) already happened, off-screen, before the session -- nothing to re-litigate here. Two things sit in front of her tonight, and letting them collide IS the scene.\par
\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  FIRST -- hands-on RAWCRAFT, a real teaching moment: she's got whatever untested ingredients came out of Ahkari's fair (Weeper's Tears, or any of the Rare Curios -- Alocasia Fruit, Bog Beacon, Comberry, Marshmerrow, Saltrice) that she hasn't identified yet. Let the player actually pick one and Rawcraft it -- chew it, or read the arcane shape directly with the Sight (established, faster) -- and tell them what Essence(s) it reveals for real, off the Alchemy GM Reference. This is the player genuinely learning the mechanic by doing it as her, live, not being told about it.\par
\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  SECOND -- Antoine's Journal 1 is open beside her: the documented Strain-1.0 data (Restoration ACCELERATES the Strain instead of curing it -- sourced fact, already established). As she works real Opposition with her hands, watching a Primary VITALIS actually meet a Primary VENITAS and cancel out to nothing, the contradiction is sitting right there for her to notice: by everything she's learning tonight, what Antoine built should not be alchemically possible. DO NOT resolve this or explain why it works -- that's the Tears of Rahgot, saved for much later. DO NOT script her reaction or her conclusion -- she is a PC; present both threads as facts and ask "what does Ismara do with that," then run whatever comes back. Unease, curiosity, dismissal, or nothing at all tonight are all fine answers.\par

\pard\sa140\b YLVA\b0  notices her peel off and follows without being asked -- she doesn't do subtlety, and she doesn't ask permission to be somewhere. She just walks over, sits down close enough to be a presence, and gets out her whetstone right there instead of at the fire. No question, no opening line. She's decided this is where she is now, and she's comfortable enough in silence not to fill it.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  ISMARA'S RESPONSE to Ylva just being there is entirely the player's call too -- acknowledge her, ignore her, keep working, say something. Whatever it is, let it sit; this doesn't need to resolve into anything before Nora shows up.\par

\pard\sa140 A while later, NORA finds them both out here -- this is the first beat of her evening-long throughline of asking around about Orion (continues in Vignette B, pays off in Vignette C). She asks straight, a little nervous: "Can I ask you both something? How do you know if wanting someone is worth what it costs?"\par
\b YLVA\b0  (not stopping the whetstone): "You want him? Go lie down next to him. If he says no, come back and sharpen something. Why is this a conversation." (a beat -- the closest she comes to tenderness tonight) "Wanting things isn't complicated, little witch. People just make it complicated so they can lose slower."\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 ISMARA\b0  (player-driven -- AIM only): the dangerous one to ask. She files everything, never lies, and is one of the only beings in camp who can SEE the Ring on Orion's finger for what it is -- she doesn't spend true things unless they buy trust. GM color, not a line: she's gone quiet through Ylva's answer, like she's turning something over. A warning to Nora would be true, kind, and a deposit in the account of a girl whose soul-vessel research fascinates her; or she says something warm and general and keeps the Ring for a better price later. Ask Davinia's player directly what Ismara actually says, if anything -- do not decide it for her.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Whatever Nora hears -- from Ylva, maybe from Ismara, maybe nothing at all -- she does what she always does with data: draws her own conclusion anyway, and moves on. Next beat of her throughline is in Vignette B.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 VIGNETTE B -- THE BLADE ON THE STONE (early evening, edge of firelight)\f2\lang1033  [this one played different. saijah had alfonso again at this time so nora went to find saijah and speak to alfono that way asking if she could put alfonos in gear to study him, we need those analysis results later, anyway they walk down to gear who is with ismara and ylva being used as a centrifuge to separate the parts of the suns dust and study it, so they all had to hang out thats when nora asked saijah for advice on orion.]\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\lang9\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Alfonso rides with ORION this leg (nobody bears him since the Nora incident, Ch.24 -- he's just whoever's turn it is). Nora asks Orion's permission before she asks anything else -- she wants to examine Alfonso, specifically whether a soul anchored in an object can be COPIED rather than transferred, and she won't touch the rapier without Orion saying yes. Given what almost happened to her the last time she reached for that sword, this is a real ask, not a formality -- play the beat with that memory sitting under it.\par

\pard\sa140\b NORA:\b0  "I'm not asking to take anything from him. I want to understand how the anchor holds -- copy versus transfer, that's the whole question. Can GEAR look? Can I?"\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If Orion says yes:\b0  GEAR runs a full technical pass out loud, precise and unfiltered -- he's describing the actual mechanism behind Hjolmar's phylactery work and doesn't know it's dangerous information to hand a grieving girl with two of her parents' souls in gemstones. Nora goes quiet partway through, and her eyes go to her own two gems, twice. Does anyone at the fire notice? Does anyone say something? She knows more by the end of it than she did at the start, whether anyone intervenes or not.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If Orion says no:\b0  Alfonso answers for himself instead -- dry, a little pleased to be asked rather than studied. "A soul is not a ledger entry, girl. Ask a kinder question and I'll answer it." (beat) "Copied. As if I were two men now instead of one, and the second never got a say." There's a real chill under the dryness for that one line. Nora doesn't push. The door stays open for later.\par

\pard\sa140 Nora then finds SAIJAH separately and asks her the same question she asked Ismara and Ylva -- the second beat of her throughline, and the one she actually came over for. She asks it straight, in her precise, over-prepared way: how do you know when wanting something is worth what it costs? She's rehearsed the question and none of the possible answers. Whatever Saijah gives her, she writes NONE of it down -- the first thing all week she hasn't taken notes on.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Player-driven -- Saijah answers however the player wants; there's no wrong answer. Then Nora gets up and heads toward Orion's side of the fire. That's the payoff, in Vignette C.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 VIGNETTE C -- NORA (late evening, fire burned low; the payoff of her throughline)\f2\lang1033  [i had orion and varon talk, varon did this after talking to saijah, so varon was asking orion for advice the way nora was about orion, he asked orion how he gets noras affections, he also complimented his kill back at the orphanage.]\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\lang9\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  This is the scene the whole evening has been walking toward -- give it the same weight as any combat set-piece; do not summarize it. She's 18, and she means every word of what follows. Play her plainly, not performed.\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "She doesn't sit near Orion by accident tonight -- she sits close, deliberately, the two of you nearly touching. For a while she doesn't say anything, just watches the coals with him.\line\line 'I've been asking everyone all night how you're supposed to know,' she says finally. 'I don't think there's an answer. I think you just have to say the thing and find out.'\f2\lang1033  [orion immediatly interupted her after she said this and started kissing her. it progressed they went to her tent. she rolled a 15 on her sexual performance roll, orion rolled a 98, he rocked ehr world apparently then we cut to black and ended the session on the win]\f0\lang9\line\line She turns to look at him properly. 'I like you. Not the careful way, not the notes-in-a-margin way -- I've tried to make it that and it doesn't work. I wanted you to hear it plainly, once, so you'd actually know. Whatever you do with it is fine. I just didn't want to spend one more night not saying it.'\line\line She doesn't look away. She's waiting."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  THE CHOICE IS ORION'S PLAYER'S, ENTIRELY -- do not narrate or decide what he does. React live to whatever the player gives you.\f2\lang1033  [nora and him slept together she got a 15 on performance he got a 95 he rocked her world]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If he doesn't engage:\b0  she takes it -- genuinely, without performance -- nods once, says goodnight plainly, goes to her bedroll. Nothing about the camp changes in the morning. The door stays open; she meant that part too.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If he engages:\b0  let whatever the player has him do or say actually play out at the table. It's theirs -- don't summarize it back into a bullet after the fact.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  EITHER WAY -- THE RING SAW ALL OF IT, because it always does. Somewhere in Solitude, Valerius files the one thing tonight actually produced: the empty man still leans toward something, and now it has a name. When the Reckoning comes, he already has this in hand. Say nothing of it to the table now.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 VIGNETTE D -- VARON, ACROSS THE FIRE (late evening, after camp quiets)\f2\lang1033  [this ran really well, saijah went right over and sat down i had varon call her vena more, she directly said so like do you like me or something, he said yes i do, she said okay well i dont know how to feel about that but i need to know i can depend on you i need you there you cant run off like that again, and he said okay]\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\lang9\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  The migraine is starting to sharpen: a low ache, pointing south, toward the mountains -- proximity doing what proximity always does to her. Saijah's player should feel this is the last easy night. Then Varon steps into the firelight across the camp, just far enough to be visible, and waits. No pressure, no demand -- crossing the distance is entirely the player's call.\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If Saijah goes to him:\b0  he doesn't wait for her to ask. "I ran when you needed me steady. I know what that cost you, and I'm not going to pretend it didn't happen so it's easier for both of us to sit here." He doesn't ask forgiveness -- he says the last part plain: "I'm not going anywhere again. That's not an apology. It's just true now." Then he actually stays, as long as she wants, saying nothing further unless she does.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If she doesn't go:\b0  in the morning there's a small carved piece near her bedroll, made overnight by firelight -- something specific to her, not a generic token (GM: pick one real detail from her gear or history and carve that). No note. He doesn't approach again unless she comes to him first. He means it.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Player-driven throughout -- what Saijah says or does, if she goes to him at all, is hers.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 VIGNETTE E -- THE CART, LATE (once the fire's mostly coals)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Mila can't sleep -- up on the cart, blanket around her shoulders. She doesn't go looking for Bjorn or Saijah specifically; she just sits where both are likely to notice her, and they do. This is Saijah's and Alfonso's scene as much as Bjorn's -- Mila has come to think of them as something like a second set of parents since Forelhost, and this beat is built to use that, not skip past it.\f2\lang1033  [had this run before the ismara scene because the player had to step out, bjorn didnt see her first, saijah did and went to comfort her but it was saihjah alfonso, anyway they talked to her blah blah and gave her some gifts, ismara bought mila some toys and stuff at the merchants tents a stuffed rabbit toy and a toy sword, anyway this ended up being a mila and siajah scene isntead of a bjorn one, they went and found bjorn drunk with mable and the black mare, balthazzar, he was just shit faced out there so mila and saijah went to sleep by the fire eventually mila fell asleep this happend after saijahs scene with varon which played first in this sequence, but it happened before saijah bough tthe skooma which happened right before davinias stuff.]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "Bjorn sees her first and comes to sit, not saying anything for a while -- he's kept a careful distance since she asked why he feels like more than one person, and tonight he closes it a little. 'I made a promise once,' he says finally. 'Broke it. Carried that forty years.' He looks at her, not away. 'Not doing that again.' It's the voice he uses for the things that matter, which is not a voice he uses often.\line\line Saijah's the one who notices Mila's hands are shaking, if anyone does -- close enough by the cart to see it before Bjorn does."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 SAIJAH'S OPENING (player-driven):\b0  what she does with that -- says something, moves closer, lets Alfonso speak, or just stays quiet and present -- is entirely the player's call. If Alfonso speaks, give him something real and in his own voice: he understands promises and their cost better than anyone at this fire, and he isn't sentimental about saying so.\par

\pard\sa140 Bjorn gets up and shows Mila the mare instead of finishing the moment with words -- left side, breathing even, hands open. The black mare, unbothered by almost everything, suffers the careful child where she suffers nobody else. Mila brushes her. Somewhere in the middle of it her hands stop shaking, and whoever's watching -- Bjorn, Saijah, both -- gets to actually be there for it instead of just narrated at.\par

\pard\sb120\sa50\cf5\b\f1\fs20 DOWNTIME OPTION -- FORAGING (any PC, before dark; optional)\f3\lang1033  [no forraging done]\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\lang9\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 Its own d20 roll, no skill, no stat (Ingredient Foraging Map). GENERAL: roll d20 on the Rift table below, get 1 of whatever the number says. TARGETED (hunting a specific ingredient they know grows here): find its number N on the table; roll at or under N to find it, and quantity = (N - roll) + 1. Roll over N = an empty look-around, or GM's call to hand them the rolled entry instead.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f1\fs20 THE RIFT -- FORAGE d20 (low = rarer find)\b0\line  1 Hagraven Feather   6 Falmer Ear       11 Honeycomb          16 Garlic\line  2 Vampire Dust       7 Canis Root       12 Blue Butterfly Wing 17 Thistle Branch\line  3 Ectoplasm          8 Mora Tapinella   13 Butterfly Wing      18 Nightshade\line  4 Nirnroot           9 Nordic Barnacle  14 River Betty         19 Blue Mountain Flower\line  5 Luna Moth Wing    10 Bee              15 Blisterwort         20 Wheat\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Morning. The open stretch.   \b -> 5  THE HIDE\f2\lang1033  pick up here. siajh got addicted to skooma \b0\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 5   THE SHADOW ON THE SNOW -- the hide\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i The set-piece. Two dragons work a logging cut like a search team, a child and an old man in the cart. Being seen is not the danger -- being recognized is. The party that killed two dragons has to convince two more they are only frightened mortals.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb120\sa50\cf4\b\f1\fs20 THE TERRAIN (give the table ALL of it -- their plans are built from this)\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa80\cf5\b\f1\fs20\bullet\tab\cf2 THE CUT:\b0  a quarter-mile-wide gap clear-felled through the pines for a Riften timber crew's haul road -- stumps waist-high in rows, the ground churned to mud and old sawdust, the sky wide open overhead for the only stretch of this whole road. The party is a third of the way across it when the shadows come.\f0\fs24\par
\cf5\b\f1\fs20\bullet\tab\cf2 THE STUMP ROWS (either side):\b0  waist-high, staggered. Not real cover from directly overhead, but they break up the ground enough to lie flat between them and read as terrain-noise instead of a person, if nobody moves.\f0\fs24\par
\cf5\b\f1\fs20\bullet\tab\cf2 THE FLUME DITCH:\b0  a log-flume cut, dug to slide timber downhill to the river, three feet deep, dry this season. A person can lie full-length in it, hidden from above; the cart cannot fit.\f0\fs24\par
\cf5\b\f1\fs20\bullet\tab\cf2 THE SLASH PILE (north edge, near the treeline):\b0  cut branches and bark heaped for burning -- loose, and it WILL shift and rattle if handled carelessly (Scene 6 uses this).\f0\fs24\par
\cf5\b\f1\fs20\bullet\tab\cf2 THE CART:\b0  canvas over bows, dirty grey-brown -- from altitude, still, with its fire-colors hidden, it can read as one more slash heap. MOVEMENT is what kills: wheels turning, animals shifting, faces looking up.\f0\fs24\par
\cf5\b\f1\fs20\bullet\tab\cf2 THE TREELINE\b0 , close on both sides: real cover, but forty yards off across open ground -- a long way to run under two dragons' eyes.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 [Judgment call, flagged: the original draft set this on bare open saddle, which doesn't sit right against the Rift's actual tree cover near a Falkreath-rivaling timber region. The mechanical shape -- open exposure, one lie-flat option, one dry-cut option, the cart-as-drift -- is what matters; reskin freely if this dressing doesn't land.]\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The road threads out of the pines into open sky -- a logging cut, a quarter mile of stumps and churned mud where a Riften crew has been felling timber for the haul road. Waist-high stumps stagger in rows on either side, a dry log-flume ditch runs three feet deep along the north edge, and cut branches are heaped into a slash pile near the treeline. The trees themselves stand forty yards off on both sides, pulled back for the first time all day.\line\line You're a third of the way across it when the sun goes dark. A shadow crosses the mud ahead of the cart, vast and wing-shaped. There's a sound with it, wingbeats bigger than sails, tearing the air in long strokes -- the same sound you heard over Kynesgrove, when the village burned. A second shadow crosses the first.\line\line Two of them.\line\line They wheel out over the cut, unhurried, patient, reading the ground. They caught a glimpse of something down here, and now they're circling to be sure."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sa140\b FRAME THE STAKES OUT LOUD, THEN STEP BACK:\b0  say it plainly -- you fought one dragon and barely survived; there are two, in the open, with a child and an old man in the cart; there is no version of a fight here that ends well. Then stop talking. If the table decides to try anyway, that's a real choice they're allowed to make -- run it honestly, don't fudge it soft, and let the terrain and the odds be the actual argument instead of you overriding their agency with narration.\par

\pard\sb120\sa50\cf4\b\f1\fs20 HOW THE TWO OF THEM SEARCH (intelligent hunters, not animals)\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 YOLSHULNIR (fire, male) and STRUNBAHNIR (storm, female) -- hatched together, hunting together -- work the cut like a spec-ops pair: one holds the sky as overwatch while the other drops to check by claw and scent. They SPEAK, calm and exact, in Dovahzul the party cannot understand. They hunt one thing -- a SOUL-THIEF, the residue of a stolen dragon soul. CANON SHIELD: a Dragonborn cannot be sensed; they physically cannot smell what Bjorn is. Only BEHAVIOR betrays the party -- acting like the thing that kills dragons instead of frightened prey.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb120\sa50\cf4\b\f1\fs20 THE HIDE -- an invisible 18-point tally\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 The challenge is not being unseen -- it is not being RECOGNIZED. A hidden 0-18 tally the table never sees; it resolves only after the sixth beat. SIX investigation beats; all THREE PCs (Davinia, Saijah, Orion) roll each beat to read as frightened prey -- 18 rolls, 18 points. Difficulty climbs as the dragons close: Beat 1 Easy(+2), 2 Easy(+2), 3 Standard(0), 4 Hard(-4), 5 Hard(-4), 6 Very Hard(-6).\f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs20 SCORING (tug-of-war): each FAILED roll +1 toward recognition; a genuinely clever or debasing prey-move -1; anything RECKLESS, defiant, or showing power +2 to +3. OVERT AGGRESSION (attacking, an unmistakable shout) OR ALFONSO TAKING A BODY (the Tenancy -- a soul moving into another host) MAXES the tally instantly: a soul crossing bodies is the exact anomaly they hunt. RESOLUTION (still hidden until now): 10 or more -- the dragons RECOGNIZE them, throats light, flight-or-death, TPK earned. 9 or fewer -- they conclude it is nothing and leave for the Golden-Wood (THE WORD, Scene 6).\f0\fs24\par
\f1\fs20 BEATS 1-2 run here (aerial); the low pass (beat 3) opens Scene 6, where the flare, the ground search (beats 4-6), and the resolution all land. The dragons speak to each other as they work -- the party hears only Dovahzul.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 BEAT 1 -- THE SHADOW SWEEP (Easy):\b0  Strunbahnir drags her shadow across their ground, testing for a flinch. STRUNBAHNIR: "Naan folaas het." (Something is wrong here.) Yolshulnir turns toward where she is already looking.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 BEAT 2 -- THE HOLD (Easy):\b0  she takes overwatch, he goes to work. STRUNBAHNIR: "Zu'u dein lok. Bo tum." (I hold the sky. Fly down.)\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  \b ESBERN\b0 , low: "That's a search pattern. Wide, methodical. Alduin's raising his kin and sending them out ahead of him to look." He does NOT know their target; keep the dread general.\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Beat 3 -- the near dragon drops into its low pass, and its downdraft is what drops the slash pile.   \b -> 6  BJORN'S SECOND FLARE\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 6   BJORN'S SECOND FLARE -- the worst moment\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The near dragon drops low over the cut -- a hunting pass, not at you -- and its downdraft slams into the cart like a fist. The cart rocks. Up on the slash pile, the loose branches let go in a grinding slide, straight down at the front bench. Straight at Mila.\line\line Bjorn is at the rear of the cart, twenty feet back, when the branches let go. He is beside her before they land."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 (This low pass is BEAT 3, Standard -- the PCs roll to stay prey as it happens. What follows is the flare, then the ground search, beats 4-6.)\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa140 For one impossible instant Bjorn crosses ground no man his age should be able to cross -- there, and then between the child and the falling stone -- and it doesn't feel strange to him at all. It feels like the easiest thing he's done all week. He doesn't look at his hands. He doesn't look at anything but Mila, checking her over once, fast, the way he's checked her a hundred times before, already breathing like it's over.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  THE BIND (the flare feeds the tally): an old man crossing that ground is exactly the not-a-frightened-mortal thing the dragons key on. Saving Mila ADDS points to the invisible tally -- and the table never sees the number it just spiked. Save the child, risk everyone; the cruelty is that they cannot know.\par
\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  WHAT THE TABLE MAY CONCLUDE: the old mercenary is reviving -- youth, speed, the War-Hound returning. A rejuvenation. Eerie. That is ALL. The Dragonborn truth does NOT surface and must not leak (his FIRST flare was the Ratway stairs, Ch.21 -- one prior data point, still no word for it). Davinia, through Ismara's Sight, sees the doubled sun of his soul flare bright and bank down -- one more silent data point. Hold the secret.\par

\pard\sa140\b BJORN\b0  (gruff, not meeting anyone's eye): "...Adrenaline. You'd be fast too, with that thing overhead. Get her down. Keep moving."\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 BEAT 4 -- HE LANDS (Hard):\b0  the air search doesn't resolve it; Yolshulnir commits to the ground, claws finding the mud. Strunbahnir stays up. YOLSHULNIR: "Bo tum." (Descending.)\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 BEAT 5 -- CLAWS THROUGH THE STUMPS (Hard):\b0  he rakes a row apart at close range, tasting for theft where a person might lie.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 BEAT 6 -- THE CLOSEST CHECK (Very Hard):\b0  the last, most invasive look -- the cart itself, the one shape Strunbahnir cannot read from above. Then the tally resolves.\par

\pard\sb120\sa50\cf4\b\f1\fs20 THE WORD -- if the party stayed prey (tally 9 or under)\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa120\cf6\i YOLSHULNIR, lifting his head from the stumps: "Nid siltafiir het. Nunon zofaas joorre."\cf2\i0\par
\cf6\i STRUNBAHNIR, from overwatch: "Ruz joorre los vobalaan. Yuvonfeykro saraan. Fin tafiir bo til."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  MEANING (the party understands NONE of it): "No soul-thief here. Only frightened mortals." / "Then the mortals are beneath us. The Golden-Wood awaits. The thief walks there." Yuvonfeykro = the dragons' name for the Rift/Riften. This is the Fall of Riften seed -- carried only by you.\par
\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  THE DIRECTION THEY LEAVE IN (only now do they go): the dragons bank away EAST, down the long line of the valley they just climbed out of, toward the Rift. If a player asks which way that is, give the compass point ONLY -- east, back down the road they came up -- and stop there. Do not name the city. A player tracking their own route out of Riften can assemble the dread themselves. (The same fact as Yuvonfeykro, from the party's side: they get the direction, never the word.)\par

\pard\sa140\i Esbern breaks the quiet first, once it's safe to talk.\i0\par
\b ESBERN\b0 : "We didn't see them coming. Again." He taps the side of the cart, hard. "The Dragonstone doesn't just mark the priests. It shows every dragon grave in Skyrim." A beat. "We need that stone. Badly."\par

\pard\sb120\sa50\cf6\b\f1\fs20 IF RECOGNIZED (tally 10+) -- FULL COMBAT, NOT A PUZZLE\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 No WORD, no departure -- the nearer throat lights from within. TELEGRAPH IT: describe the throat igniting, give one full beat for anyone to declare they're running, and do not fudge the first hit soft if they stand. This is not Krosulhah -- there is no avalanche-equivalent lever in an open logging cut, no chokepoint, nothing to collapse. That absence is the design. If the table commits to a fight after Scene 5's stakes were framed plainly, the commitment is real and this is what it costs.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 EACH DRAGON ROLLS ITS OWN INITIATIVE -- NOT a shared enemy slot. Two independent apex actors interleaved with the party's three is what makes this lethal; do not simplify it into one combined turn.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f1\fs20 YOLSHULNIR -- FIRE DRAGON (APEX)\b0\line HP 280   DR 9   Immune: Fear, Poison, Disease, Fire\line ATTACKS:\line   Inferno Breath | Major, 40ft cone | -6 Agi | 40 fire fail / 20 success\line   Bite           | Major, melee | 45 phys | Prone + Grapple\line   Wildfire Claws | Major, melee | 30 phys | ignites the ground beneath the target\line TERRAIN IGNITION (automatic, no roll): this cut is dry stumps, old sawdust, and a\line slash pile built for burning. Any time Inferno Breath, Wildfire Claws, or a Fanned\line Inferno (below) lands anywhere in the cut, that ground catches -- a standing fire\line hazard, 5 fire/round to anyone in it, no check required. The terrain wants to burn.\line GROWING HUNGER (passive): at the start of his turn, if ANY fire is burning anywhere\line on the field -- his own or hers via Fanned Inferno -- he regains 10 HP. He does not\line resist fire. He is fed by it, regardless of who lit it.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f1\fs20 STRUNBAHNIR -- STORM DRAGON (APEX)\b0\line HP 280   DR 9   Immune: Fear, Poison, Disease, Shock\line ATTACKS:\line   Storm Call    | Major, ranged 60ft, any point she can see, no breath-cone -- a bolt\line                 called down out of the sky, not exhaled | -6 Agi | 40 shock fail / 20\line                 success | ignores half DR from metal armor | usable at full altitude\line   Storm Fracture| Major, ranged 60ft, one point she can see -- the anchor bolt hits\line                 full force (as Storm Call), then shatters outward: everyone else within\line                 30ft of that point takes 15 shock / -2 Agi. Punishes clustering.\line   Bite          | Major, melee | 45 phys | Prone + Grapple (only if she grounds)\line   Gale Slam     | Major, 20ft radius downdraft | -4 Might | 15 bludg + push 15ft |\line                 snuffs small fires in the radius\line STORM GATHERING (automatic, no roll): every Storm Call or Storm Fracture she USES --\line hit or miss, the discharge itself is what counts -- ionizes the air a little more. At\line 3 uses, a real storm forms overhead, unprompted, and stays for the rest of the fight.\line From the round after it forms: at the start of her turn, she regains 10 HP, same as\line her brother, for the same reason -- she is not resisting the storm, she built it.\line PASSIVE: Advantage resisting Prone/stagger (steady in her own wind).\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 FANNED INFERNO (their signature, not a special trigger -- it just happens if they're\line played as the coordinated pair Scene 5 already establishes): if either of Strunbahnir's\line lightning attacks lands on ground Yolshulnir has already ignited, or Gale Slam pushes a\line target into a Wildfire zone, that fire zone's damage doubles this round and its area\line expands 10ft. Two minds working together, not two stat blocks running in parallel.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 THE ONLY MERCY VALVE: Bjorn's speed. Already unmistakable after Scene 6's flare -- if it comes to this, it is no longer deniable as adrenaline, but it is also the one thing in the scene fast enough to physically carry Mila (and, if the table plays it well, one more) clear to the treeline before a second breath attack lands. This is not a win condition. It is who gets out.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 [Open production idea: a simple regional map prop for this beat -- the party's position, the road, and the dragons' heading drawn on it -- would let a sharp player do the orientation themselves. Also flagged: a battlemap for the logging cut, possibly with small animated fly-over moments. Neither built in this pass.]\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  The shadows shrink east and are gone. That night, or held for later -- the Reckoning.   \b -> THE RECKONING\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 THE RECKONING -- Valerius comes in person\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i TIMING: LOCKED, this road-camp -- the one after the Hide, before Ivarstead. (Originally meant for the Khajiit caravan night; the session ended before reaching it, so it lands here instead.) Locked design: scratch &#167;18/19. Not a fight. Not survivable as one. This is NOT a public confrontation -- read the staging carefully.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sa140 Seeded by Orion disobeying the Constance-enthrall order (Ch.24). Valerius Caelus, \b AP 30\b0 , arrives IN PERSON that night -- a vampire lord travels fast. Not a fight, not a save, and the party cannot intervene: that is the point. \b He does not come to the fire. He takes Orion FROM it.\b0  The Contest Level-Gap Penalty (\b -20 to -25\b0  on any will-vs-will resistance) is the wall, and the rules back it.\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE PULL:\b0  at the fire, the Ring goes from familiar cold to a KILLING cold with a will behind it. Orion does not decide to stop; he simply stops, rises, and walks from the firelight into the dark -- compelled, a thing on a string. The camp watches him go and cannot stop it. \b This is the only part the rest of the party witnesses directly.\b0  The interrogation and the trim happen at the treeline, out of earshot, by design.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE TREELINE:\b0  Valerius is already waiting there.\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa180\cf6\i Still tall, close to six and a half feet. Dressed without a wrinkle or a loose thread anywhere on him. Dark hair, cut close, combed back exactly as it was at Falkreath. Pale skin, entirely unblemished.\line\line His shoulders are wider than they were. The muscle across his forearms and chest is new since Falkreath -- real mass, visible through his clothes. His neck is thicker.\line\line He wears a coat of dark blue wool so finely woven the weave itself can't be seen, trimmed at the collar and cuffs with white fur, unbroken but for small dark tips at the very ends of each hair. A gold clasp closes it at the throat, the engraving on its face worn smooth from years of handling. A heavy gold signet ring sits on his right hand, its surface scratched from ordinary wear.\line\line The coat, the clasp, the ring -- these things seemed familiar, you have seen them before.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM (clothing tell):\cf2\b0  this is Torygg's own coat, clasp, and signet ring -- casual wear, not state regalia. The worn engraving and scratched ring face are real personal effects, not commissioned copies. Don't name him. Let the table place it, or call for a Guile roll if nobody does.\par
\cf1\b GM (the one real weakness):\cf2\b0  Valerius's love for his dead wife is the one real, unweaponized thing left in him. Everything else -- the courtship of Elisif, the handling of Orion, the courtesy he shows the whole table -- is instrument, calculated, worn like the coat. His wife is not. If her name is spoken in front of him, or his son's, his hands stop moving, whatever they're doing. His jaw sets. He does not speak for three seconds, sometimes four, before he answers. This is real and repeatable -- it fires every time a player finds it, not just once, and it does not close over. Not with time. Not with power. Not ever.\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE INTERROGATION:\b0  he does not ask where they're going.\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa180\cf6\i He doesn't announce himself. He is simply there when Orion reaches the treeline, standing among the trees the way a man stands in his own home, and he watches Orion cross the last few feet of ground before he speaks at all.\line\line "You look well," he says, and it isn't courtesy -- it's an actual observation. "Considering." A slow study of him, unhurried, the way a man checks a tool he hasn't handled in a while, confirming the edge has held. Then, without any shift in tone: "Tell me about the Dunmer."\line\line His eyes stay on Orion's face a moment longer than the question needs. "I have watched this before, longer ago than you would believe. A mind poured into a form too small to hold it, serving something that feeds on exactly that kind of failure. He is not losing himself by accident, Orion. Something wants him to lose himself." He leans in, fractionally -- the first time all night his stillness has broken. "Has he said which one. Has anything spoken to him, from inside that iron?"\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  decide live what Orion actually knows and volunteers about Alfonso's condition -- including whether last session's Namira contact ("become less to be more") comes up. This is a real choice for Orion's player, not a foregone reveal. Whatever he learns here, Valerius BANKS -- this is not something the table hears confirmed in the moment; they're still back at the fire.\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa180\cf6\i "The archer." His tone resets, unhurried. "One of yours already carries Hircine's mark -- the Cleaver, isn't that what she calls herself. He rarely stops at one." A pause. "Has he made her an offer yet? And more importantly -- has she accepted?"\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  a real contest, not narrated fiat -- have Orion's player roll Guile against the Contest Level-Gap Penalty (-20 to -25). It will almost certainly fail, and that's the point this early: the gap is real, but it's a roll, and a critical success is rarely, genuinely possible. What's contested is whether Valerius gets an answer at all -- if Orion somehow holds, Valerius simply doesn't learn it tonight, and notices the resistance for what it is.\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa180\cf6\i "The archer." His tone resets, unhurried. "A god of the hunt marked her once, and she refused him. Good. See that it stays refused, if the offer is ever raised to her again. Discourage it, quietly, the way you'd talk a friend out of anything. I don't need to tell you how." A pause. "A wolf does not sicken the way a woman does. I would rather she stayed a woman a while longer."\line\line Something in the set of his shoulders eases, fractionally -- the way a man relaxes once a plan he was prepared to rush no longer needs rushing. "There was a child I had been patient about, for entirely different reasons. It seems I can go on being patient." He leaves the rest unsaid, and moves on.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa180\cf6\i "My cousin. When you go back to her --" A pause, then he finishes it plainly. "What will you say to her, exactly?"\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  he is not fishing for what she is -- that stays reserved for himself, see THE MEETING below. This is a loyalty test on ORION: how much independent care does the tool have left. He's not looking for specific content -- a cold, minimal answer ("I'll say you asked to see her, nothing more") reads as a properly broken asset and satisfies him; he simply moves on. Anything showing genuine intent to warn or protect her is a real mark against Orion's obedience -- not punished here, tonight, but remembered, and it should shape how much Valerius trusts him from here forward. Orion's actual answer is entirely the player's.\par
\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  He does not ask about the old man with the cart -- underestimates him completely. His blind spots protect what he genuinely doesn't know (the Crown's true fate, Bjorn's wrongness, what Davinia truly is).\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa180\cf6\i He moves to the next thing without any change in pace. "There are two men in this company who belong to someone besides me, and both of them believe they have some say in what happens to you." A brief pause, deciding which to take first. "The old one you hid under the floor. A Blade, if the coat and the manner are honest. What has he actually confirmed about what's coming?"\line\line "Watch him. Whatever he learns, whatever he decides, I want to know before he acts on it."\line\line "Your Brotherhood's man." A different register now -- instruction, not inquiry. "Use him. Whatever leverage the two of you hold over each other, spend it, and put yourself in front of the woman who runs your order. Astrid, I believe the name is." A pause. "I want to know her."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  ESBERN: a standing task, not a one-time question -- Orion is now expected to keep watch on him going forward and report back. VARON: not framed as a threat to neutralize but as a door -- Orion is directed to leverage whatever he holds over Varon (or Varon over him) to gain access to Astrid, expanding Valerius's network into the Dark Brotherhood itself, the same logic as everything else he's built. Orion's actual answers to both remain the player's.\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE TRIM:\b0\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa180\cf6\i "A hand that will not close when I will it is not a hand." Valerius does not move.\line\line Orion's right hand closes around the knife's hilt, slowly, deliberately.\line\line His off-arm lifts, turns, lays itself bare below the elbow. The knife rises. "Close it," Valerius says. "Now."\line\line The knife comes down the first time. It goes in clean through skin and the muscle under it, and the sensation arrives as several things at once -- a bright line where the edge passes, then a deeper ache spreading out beneath it. He feels all of it. He wants to scream at the first inch of the blade.\line\line The knife comes down a second time. It finds bone this time, and the impact travels up through what's left of his arm into his shoulder, a jarring, ringing shock that should buckle any man's knees. The same will that closed his hand around the hilt is holding them straight, and he is fully present for every part of the pain while that same will decides whether he gets to answer it.\line\line The knife comes down a third time. This is the one that finishes it -- the bone gives, finally, and there is a sound that is unmistakably his arm coming apart. He wants to scream through this one more than either of the others. The will holds him just as still.\line\line Then it is over, and the will lets go of his voice and his knees in the same instant. He goes down. The air reaches the open nerve endings, and that -- more than the cutting, more than the bone giving -- is the part that takes what's left of him apart.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  what Orion actually does now -- sound, words, how he holds himself -- is the player's entirely. Don't narrate the reaction for them.\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa180\cf6\i "This is mercy, Orion." Quiet, once he can hear it. "I am keeping the rest of you. Serve better."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20\b MECH (permanent until remedied):\b0  the off-hand is gone; ANY Minor Action requiring the hands becomes a MAJOR Action until Orion has a prosthesis. Movement and speech are the only Minor Actions left to him. No save.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb120\sa50\cf4\b\f1\fs20 THE DESIGN\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa180\cf6\i He lets Orion feel the wound a moment before he speaks again.\line\line "You spent a night with the girl. Nora." A pause -- not for effect, simply the care of a man choosing his next words with precision. "Eighteen, I believe. Alfonso's apprentice."\line\line He says nothing further about her. He does not need to.\line\line "You will serve me well from here forward," he says, and it is not a demand -- only the observation of a fact newly true.\line\line "You believe I sent you for one woman. I did not." A pause. "The woman was a key." A pause. "A house full of children who go where they like, hear everything, and are looked at by no one -- an ear inside Riften that never sleeps and never has to be paid. Constance Michel was the hand that would have turned it to me. I did not ask you to kill her. I asked you to keep her. Had you done that one small thing, the children would be safe today. Now they will die. You and the Dunmer saw to that."\line\line "I have some two hundred people, at this moment, performing small tasks for me across three holds. Each is told only enough to finish his own piece. None of them know the others exist; none of them know what the whole becomes. You were one such piece. You decided, on your own, that yours was too small to matter, and you did not finish it."\line\line "Do you understand what you made me do here tonight?" He seems to want an answer, this time. "I take no pleasure in it. I never have. But if I let one piece decide, quietly, that its part did not matter -- what does the next one decide? And the one after that?" A slow shake of the head. "Everything I have built comes apart in my own hands, one small permission at a time." A pause. "You did this, Orion."\line\line He steps closer.\line\line "And you will be better for it. A man carries himself differently once he knows there is a price and who sets it -- steadier, freed of the small daily wondering of whether this time he might refuse. You will do finer work now than you ever have. One day you will thank me for tonight." He almost smiles. "Most men are never given so honest a gift."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  he means the last part sincerely -- not taunting, genuine. He believes the maiming is a generosity that will improve Orion. The sincerity is the horror, not the cruelty.\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE FETCH:\b0  he sends the maimed, one-handed Orion back to the fire to bring him Davinia. "Bring me my cousin. I would speak with her." He does not care whether the others follow -- they cannot touch him regardless. Orion returns to the firelight missing a hand, and fetches her, compelled or simply relaying it -- the camp's first sign anything happened at all.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE MEETING -- VALERIUS & "DAVINIA" (player-driven; GM only AIMS Valerius)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa140\b * DO NOT SCRIPT ISMARA/DAVINIA. The player controls what she reveals, hides, says, or does. Run Valerius TOWARD her and react to the player's choices -- the notes below are how to aim him, not what happens. \b0 *\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 HIS AIM:\b0  to meet his cousin and dynastic claimant, assess her, and begin folding her Caelus claim into his ascension. He arrives expecting a mortal woman.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 WHAT HE FINDS:\b0  silver-white skin, eyes the wrong age -- and an old vampire knows unnatural longevity on sight. His aim shifts mid-scene from courting a claimant to working out what she actually is. He probes, courteous, the courtesy DEEPENING as he senses old power in her.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE TRAP IN THE TEST:\b0  he may test her with family knowledge only Davinia would have -- but Ismara holds the mother-archive and most of Davinia's memory, so the PLAYER can pass such tests if she chooses. Trivia won't expose her; what nags him is what he SEES and FEELS.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 GM-AIM DEFAULT (unless the player reveals):\b0  seed, not reveal. He leaves unsettled and intrigued, filing that his cousin is "not herself." The real collision stays banked for later.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 IF SHE REVEALS:\b0  run the full collision -- two stasis-tyrants meeting, one player on the board he can neither own nor out-claim. Let his composure crack only slightly; the table should sense he's met something above him. Don't win the scene for him.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE EXIT:\b0  only now the drama. He thanks her -- or the camp, whoever he's addressing -- for the visit, steps back from the firelight, and comes apart upward into the winged shape: one long climbing beat of membrane and cold air, gone south.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  ORION'S EXPERIENCE: the horror isn't the pain, it's being OWNED -- forced to betray his party with his own mouth and maim himself with his own hand, entirely offstage, and then made to walk back into the firelight and perform normal in front of people who have no idea yet what just happened to him. Let the player choose how he wears that when he returns; never narrate his inner life for him.\par
\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  If Vignette C fired (either branch), Valerius already knows about Nora. He needs to do nothing with it tonight. Knowing is the leverage, banked for later.\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 7   THE FAINT WRONGNESS -- the approach\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i The bridge scene. Normal physics end here; the first time-slips arrive on the last mile.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The two shadows shrink into the east and are gone. The road drops toward a valley, and at the bottom of it sits Ivarstead, small and grey against the mountain behind it. You are nearly there.\line\line Then, on the last mile, each of you catches it -- once, and only once. A footprint appears in the mud of the road a heartbeat before Bjorn's boot comes down to make it. A word someone said comes back off the rocks a moment too late, in their own voice. The cart's shadow lags a half-step behind the cart.\line\line Small things. The mountain stands ahead, and the whole road bends toward it."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  One slip per character, once each, unrepeated -- let each player pick how theirs lands or hand them one. Do NOT explain. The weather system switches ON at the town line; this mile is its knock at the door.\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Part Two. The temporal weather switches ON at the town line.   \b -> PART TWO -- IVARSTEAD\b0\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20 \sb60\sa220\par

\pard\sb120\sa200\cf1\b\fs40 PART TWO -- IVARSTEAD & THE BLEEDING STAIR\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\cf3\i The party's first contact with the Dagon apocalypse and with Gaelen the Root-Twister. Advance, never resolve: the Tower cosmology lands HARD; everything personal stays loaded. The town -> the ascent -> High Hrothgar -> the undercroft -> the sealing.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb120\sa50\cf4\b\f1\fs20 GM RULES -- THE TEMPORAL WEATHER (proximity zones + the alarm)\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 The distortion is a SIDE EFFECT: the cult corrupts the TOWER from the undercroft; the mountain's existing Time-Wound turns that violence into weather. The cult does not target the Wound and does not control the weather -- they just know how to surf it. Each scene below restates its own zone at the point of use; this is the master card.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f1\fs20 HOW IT RUNS (core, locked):\b0\line 1. The GM sets a REAL-WORLD ALARM (phone, hidden). It fires with NO warning;\line    the players learn to dread the sound.\line 2. On the alarm: GM rolls d20 -> picks which table in the CURRENT ZONE's set is\line    active ('the weather shifts'). Announce nothing but the sensation.\line 3. In combat, every character rolls d20 TEMPO at the start of their turn on the\line    active table -> that is their action economy this turn.\line 4. THE GRADIENT = two dials: higher zones have NASTIER tables AND the alarm\line    fires MORE OFTEN.\line 5. SEPARATION IS EXPOSURE: anyone who strays from the group slips out of the\line    shared 'now' -- they face this zone's weather ALONE, no one to pull them\line    back into sequence. A tight, roped body is the only anchor.\line\line\b ENEMIES CHEAT:\b0  Dagonites carry grafted TIDE-SHARDS (obsidian slivers fused\line at the sternum) -- they choose their Tempo result instead of rolling. THE\line COUNTER: destroy the shard -- a Called Shot (Very Hard -6), or Sunder aimed at\line it, or it shatters on their death -- and that cultist rolls like everyone else.\line Ylva FEELS every cheat as a broken hunt-rhythm (hackles, growl) before any\line mortal can name it.\f0\fs24\par
\b\f1\fs20 ZONE TABLES (d20 TEMPO -- roll at start of each combat turn)\b0\line\line ZONE 0 -- THE TOWN (faintest; alarm ~every 25 min real time)\line   1 Frozen (0 actions) | 2-4 Dragging (Major OR Minor) | 5-16 In step (normal)\line   | 17-19 Quickened (+1 Minor) | 20 Unmoored (full extra turn after this one)\line   Social distortion instead of combat weather: see Scene 8's card.\line\line ZONE 1 -- THE LOWER STEPS, Waystones 1-2 (alarm ~15 min)\line   1-2 Frozen | 3-5 Dragging | 6-15 In step | 16-19 Quickened | 20 Unmoored\line\line ZONE 2 -- THE UPPER STEPS, Waystone 3 -> High Hrothgar (alarm ~10 min)\line   1-3 Frozen | 4-7 Dragging | 8-13 In step | 14-18 Quickened | 19-20 Unmoored\line\line ZONE 3 -- THE UNDERCROFT (worst; alarm ~6 min)\line   1-4 Frozen | 5-8 Dragging | 9-12 In step | 13-17 Quickened | 18-20 Unmoored\line   PLUS: any natural 1 or 20 on Tempo ALSO triggers a SECONDARY HORROR (d20):\line    1-4  your spell/attack this turn resolves at the START of your NEXT turn\line    5-8  damage you deal this turn already landed LAST round (retroactive; if the\line         target acted since, it staggers them now instead)\line    9-12 echo-step: you are suddenly 15 ft from where you stood (GM places you\line         where you were 1 round ago)\line    13-16 doubled: act twice this turn, then LOSE your next turn entirely\line    17-20 the initiative order reshuffles (reroll all) at this turn's end\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 The zone tables and secondary-horror list are built to the locked dials (scratch 5); adjust freely at the table -- the ALARM and the DREAD are the mechanic, the numbers are servants.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb120\sa50\cf4\b\f1\fs20 GM RULES -- SAIJAH'S DOUBLE MIGRAINE\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f1\fs20 THE DOUBLE MIGRAINE (triggers the instant she touches the first black sap)\b0\line Two Towers scream at once: the Eldergleam she always feels + the Throat under\line fresh assault. While anywhere in the corrupted zone (the whole Stair):\line    -2 Guile   |   -2 Agility   |   +2 damage taken from all sources\line Sustained and brutal BY DESIGN -- the player must FEEL it, because that ache is\line exactly what gives Hircine's 'I can make it stop' its hook (Scene 11).\line (Replaces the -1 city penalty here.)\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 8   THE FOOT OF THE STAIR -- Ivarstead is the bottom edge of the unmaking\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i Set-piece + social. The frightened half-empty town, the first Waystone, the inn that is not a haven. ZONE 0.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "Ivarstead is a handful of grey houses pressed against the biggest thing in the world. Half of them stand with their doors open. Through the nearest doorway a table is still set for a meal, and a dresser hangs open with clothes trailing out of it into the mud. Smoke rises from three chimneys. A barricade of farm carts and fence posts blocks the lane toward the river, and nobody stands behind it.\line\line At the bridge, the first Waystone leans in its socket, and it is bleeding: a slow black sap crawling UP the carved stone, against gravity, pooling in the old runes until they read wet and dark. Where a drop falls, it falls slowly -- slower than it should, like it is falling through deeper water than the world's.\line\line A big man sits on the inn's steps with a loaded pack at his feet. He watches you come up the road the way a man watches the first help arrive at a fire that has already taken the roof."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sa140\b KLIMMEK:\b0  "You came. Gods -- somebody came." (a breath, steadying) "I still have the supplies for the monastery. Been packed nine days. Every time I set foot past the third stone something... happens to the walk. Hours go by that I don't remember walking. Once I came down and my beard had grown out three days. The masters are up there ALONE, and I can't -- I can't make the climb." He pushes the pack toward you. "You're climbing. I know you are. Take it. Please."\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If they take the pack:\b0  he grips whoever takes it by the forearm, hard, and can't speak for a second. "Tell them Klimmek sent it. Tell them I tried."\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If they hesitate or refuse:\b0  he doesn't argue. He carries the pack back to the inn steps, sets it where it can be seen from the whole square, and starts asking -- quietly, doggedly -- what it would take. Coin. Meals. His fishing boat. He has already decided they're climbing; he's only finding the price.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If they ask him to come along:\b0  he tries. He makes it fifty steps past the bridge and stops dead at the edge of the third stone's reach, sweating, and his legs will not go on. "...You see it now. It isn't cowardice. The mountain won't have me." A live demonstration of what the Stair does, before they set foot on it.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  SAIJAH -- STATION 1 fires at the Waystone: hand her player the sensation -- the black sap NAGS, familiar, can't place it. An itch, not a recognition. (The DOUBLE MIGRAINE fires the instant she TOUCHES it -- debuff card ON for the rest of the Stair.) DAVINIA/ISMARA -- hand her player what the Sight shows: the corruption reads as a structured working running DOWN into the mountain's root, not spilling up from the stone. What either player does with what they're handed is theirs.\par

\pard\sb120\sa50\cf5\b\f1\fs20 THE TOWN'S BROKEN TIME (Zone 0 -- social, not lethal)\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f1\fs20 TOWN DISTORTION (color any conversation with one of these; light touch):\b0\line - An answer arrives BEFORE the question finishes being asked.\line - A villager repeats the last exchange verbatim, unaware; it plays like an echo.\line - Someone thanks the party for a thing they have not done yet.\line - A door is heard closing a full breath before it visibly closes.\line In fights here: Zone 0 Tempo (1 Frozen | 2-4 Dragging | 5-16 In step |\line 17-19 Quickened | 20 Unmoored), alarm rare. The horror is social first.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 NO HAVEN AT THE FOOT (the everyone-climbs logic -- play it, don't announce it)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2\b0 The corruption is creeping DOWN into the streets, and Dagonites move through the empty half of town after dark. There is nowhere safe to leave a child, an old man, or a horse.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 The lesson the fiction teaches:\b0  to wait below is to wait inside the thing they came to stop. Bjorn will not be parted from Mila; the party will not abandon either of them; and on the mountain, the weather ISOLATES stragglers. The whole crew climbs as one -- guarding their two most precious people up a mountain of cosmic horror.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE INN NIGHT -- the attack (runnable, not a summary)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Written for the inn, the least-bad shelter -- but if the party beds down anywhere else in town, the attack finds them there instead. The register is the point, not the address.\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The attack comes at the dark end of the night, when the common-room fire has burned to coals. Glass breaks somewhere at the back of the inn. Then the front door booms -- once, twice, something heavy swung against it -- and through the shutter slats you can see torchlight, five points of it, spreading to circle the building.\line\line A voice outside begins to recite. It is calm, level, patient -- the cadence of a prayer -- and the words are about fire, and gates, and the mercy of a clean unmaking."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  RUN IT: 4 DAGONITE CULTISTS + 1 SHARD ZEALOT (cards below). Zone 0 Tempo for everyone; the cultists CHEAT theirs via tide-shards -- if this is the party's first sight of a cheat, fire Ylva's Referee's Wrath beat (Scene 9) HERE instead of on the Stair. They come to BURN, not to loot: this is the Kvatch register, what Dagon taking a space looks like. Anything left OUTSIDE -- cart, supplies, animals -- is torched or taken. The mare comes INSIDE (fearless, she walks in like she has always lived indoors; Mable has to be dragged and hooded). Two villagers sheltering in the common room get grabbed through a window mid-fight -- alive, hurt, screaming -- savable if someone moves NOW. The zealot fights to the end; surviving cultists withdraw chanting when it falls. Dawn comes grey.\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f1\fs20 DAGONITE CULTIST  x4-8  (TL1, Expert)\b0  -- razor-scarred, ash-grey robes\line HP 100  |  Dmg 20 (jagged glass-steel)  |  DR 11  |  17/15/13/8 (P=Might or Magic)\line Tide-shard graft: CHOOSES Tempo (see weather card) until the shard is destroyed.\line Fights to the end; retreat is not in the liturgy.\line\line\b SHARD ZEALOT  (TL2, Expert)\b0  -- the graft has spread up the throat; voice doubles\line HP 250  |  Dmg 31  |  DR 17  |  18/16/13/8 (P=Magic)\line Casts Ash Shell (4 FP) and Firebolt (3 FP, 6 dmg) between blade-work.\line Cheats Tempo; on its death the shard bursts -- 5 dmg to all within 5 ft.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Dawn after the inn night. Klimmek's pack on someone's shoulders. The first of seven thousand steps.   \b -> 9  THE BLEEDING STEPS\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 9   THE BLEEDING STEPS -- the ascent\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i ZONES 1-2. Waystone by Waystone the world comes loose. Dagonite ambushes that cheat. Saijah stations 2-4. Keep the rope tight.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The Steps are older than any road you have walked -- worn hollow in the middle by seven thousand years of pilgrims -- and they climb out of the valley in long switchbacks that vanish into cloud. Every few hundred steps a Waystone stands in its socket, and every one of them is bleeding the same slow black sap, the runes drowned dark.\line\line At the first stone the snow around your boots falls UPWARD for three heartbeats, a soft reversed flurry, and settles as if nothing happened. By the third stone your own voices start coming back off the rock faces a moment too late. By the fourth, you walk beside your own afterimages -- a half-second echo of each of you, following a half-step behind."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 ZONE 1 through Waystone 2 (Tempo: 1-2 Frozen | 3-5 Dragging | 6-15 In step | 16-19 Quickened | 20 Unmoored; alarm ~15 min). ZONE 2 from Waystone 3 up (1-3 Frozen | 4-7 Dragging | 8-13 In step | 14-18 Quickened | 19-20 Unmoored; alarm ~10 min). Run the alarm honestly -- the dread of the sound is the mechanic.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  ROPE RULE, said out loud once: stay together. Anyone who strays faces the weather ALONE -- this zone's Tempo with nobody to pull them back into the shared now.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 SAIJAH -- STATIONS 2-4 (paced, never a lecture; hand her player each one as sensation)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Station 2 (deeper):\b0  she PLACES the signature -- "I've felt this before" (Thornheart; the Solitude temple tree) -- but it reads as coincidence. Two points, no pattern. Hers to voice or sit on.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Station 3:\b0  the migraine DOUBLES -- two simultaneous sources, which makes no sense to her. The -2/-2/+2 is fully on. Something is deeply wrong; she does not know what.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Station 4 (Gaelen's voice -- through the corrupted leylines, to her alone, mid-climb):\b0  warm, sincere, reasonable: "You feel it as pain because you were taught the cage is your body. Forests that burn and regrow in a breath. Beasts that never stop becoming. I am not breaking anything, little sentinel. I am opening a door that was nailed shut before you were born." -- and the SCALE slips: "...prisons. I have been opening them for years. This is not the first, or the last." A clue she cannot yet hold.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 COMBAT -- THE CHEATED GAME (Dagonite ambushes)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Use CULTISTS + a ZEALOT per ambush (cards, Scene 8). They surf the weather: stolen turns, doubled moves, strikes out of sequence -- while the party rolls Tempo. Make the unfairness VISIBLE. Then let the party break the shards and even the game -- that reversal is the fun.\par

\pard\sa140\b YLVA -- THE REFEREE'S WRATH (this develops SAIJAH, not Ylva):\b0  the first time a cultist cheats, Ylva's hackles rise BEFORE it happens -- she growls at empty air a half-second early, then the cheat comes. She cannot name 'temporal weather'; she knows a FOUL happened. "They're cheating. The hunt has RULES." Her fury is theological -- the laws make the game sacred; these people spit on the game itself. Saijah, watching, is seeing the exact hunt-rhythm sense Hircine could one day give HER.\par
\b VARON\b0  (falling in at Ylva's shoulder, blades reversed): "Then we kill them properly. Inside the rules. For once, hound, we agree." She doesn't answer him. Her growl changes register -- and the two who cannot stand each other fight back to back, aligned. Give it one beat out loud.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 THE OTHERS ON THE CLIMB (each one routed through a player)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 NORA'S GEMS (whoever looks at her during a weather shift):\b0  the two black gems at her throat are stuttering -- the light inside them doubling, like two heartbeats out of step. She's clutching them and saying nothing. A horror beat, not a resolution; whether anyone goes to her is the table's call.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 ALFONSO (carried by ORION this leg):\b0  Orion feels him brace every time the weather shifts -- a flinch in the iron, each time, that he will not explain. If pressed: "Ask me at the bottom of the mountain." (He does not know what broken time does to a soul living in a sword. He does not want to learn it here.)\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 BJORN:\b0  his speed may FLICKER again on the climb if Mila is threatened -- shorter than the road flare, still read as rejuvenation, never named. Davinia's Sight logs one more silent data point if her player looks.\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  The last switchback. Grey stone walls in the cloud. The monastery.   \b -> 10  HIGH HROTHGAR\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 10   HIGH HROTHGAR -- the quarantine of the masters\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i Character scene at the top of the world. The TOWER hard-reveal, Kynareth's first new word in years, and the Ring feeding it all to Solitude.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The monastery is grey stone against grey sky, and the doors stand barred from within. When they open -- slowly, to Klimmek's pack and your knock -- the man inside has a face like a starved hawk, and his hands keep trembling after he grips the door to still them.\line\line Behind him, in the great bare hall, three more grey-robed figures sit in a triangle around a brazier, and the air between them HUMS -- a note below hearing, steady as a heartbeat. You feel it in your teeth, in the floor, in the old stone. The hum never wavers, not even for them to breathe.\line\line Underneath it all, faint and constant, the mountain is trying to shake itself apart -- and the hum is holding it, barely, the way a hand holds a lid down on a boiling pot."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sa140\b MASTER ARNGEIR\b0  (voice cracked from disuse and overuse at once): "You climbed through THAT. Then you have seen what is happening to the mountain." (he looks at the pack, and something in the hawk face almost breaks) "...Klimmek's bread. Forgive me. It has been -- some time."\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 WHAT THE MASTERS GIVE (scholarship, not senses)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE HARD REVEAL -- the word TOWER:\b0  "You stand on one of the pillars of the world. The Throat is a TOWER -- one of the stones that holds Mundus against Oblivion. The zealots below are not desecrating a holy place. They are cutting a load-bearing wall of the WORLD. The shaking you feel in time is the Tower beginning to fail." -> The party LEAVES KNOWING they are in the main plot. Land it plainly.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 The Way of the Voice OPENS:\b0  the masters accept the party as the first help to reach them; the door stands open hereafter (scholarship, Word Wall locations for seekers -- the masters themselves cannot shout offensively enough to leave; holding the mountain takes everything they have).\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If the party asks them to come fight:\b0  ARNGEIR: "If one of us stands up from this circle, you will feel the reason in the floor before your next breath." He is not refusing. He is describing a load-bearing wall.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 What they CANNOT do (hold this line):\b0  no special senses of ANY kind. They do not see Ismara in Davinia. They do not sense anything in Bjorn. They cannot name a Dragonborn -- no one can. They hold the summit by Voice and endurance, and they are losing.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 The geography clue:\b0  "The working is BELOW us -- in the undercroft, at the mountain's root. The summit path is SEALED (only a Shout clears it, and none of us can be spared from the holding). Whatever you came to stop, you will find it downstairs."\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 KYNARETH'S REVEAL (Saijah -- station 5; the goddess, NOT the masters)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  At Kyne's own peak, the goddess finally gives Saijah something NEW -- hand her player the vision itself, cryptic, non-verbal, the first fresh thing after all the repeated instructions: an IMAGE she cannot decode -- a wind carrying a great soul upward, toward a hall of mist and warriors -- and a certainty, wordless and enormous, that her ENDURING matters to the end of the world. Somewhere in the image, unnamed, a shape like a big man standing between a child and the sky. She gets a FEELING about Bjorn, never a label. What she does with any of it is hers. GM-only: this is the reason to endure the pain -- delivered the night BEFORE Hircine offers to end it.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 THE OTHERS AT THE MONASTERY\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 DAVINIA/ISMARA (two things to hand her player, separately):\b0  FIRST, what the Sight shows -- hers are the only eyes that can READ the Tower: the leyline lattice, the corruption's shape crawling up the root like ivy under the skin of the world. A Sight showcase; hand her the picture and let her do with it what she likes. SECOND, make sure the player knows what her own gift could do here: FREEZE the wound locally -- stasis set against chaos, tactically real. GM-side only: using it advances the CDI. Put the option on the table once, plainly, and run whatever she chooses. Do not push it and do not forbid it. (The masters see none of this either way.)\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 ORION -- the tonal architect:\b0  the corruption is a FREQUENCY phenomenon and he is the one person equipped to read it as MECHANISM. Diagnostic Song against the hum: he maps the working's structure -- this feeds Scene 11's disruption options and his Severance research. ARNGEIR, after the Song (the masters' respect, earned and real): "We shout. You listen. I begin to think listening was always the deeper school." THE GUT-PUNCH (GM-only, say nothing): the Ring has fed Valerius the entire apocalypse, live, all climb.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 GEAR\b0  (he climbed; everyone climbs): quantifies the break -- "local causality variance exceeds Dwemer tonal tolerances by a factor of nine. I have no protocol for this. I find I do not enjoy that." Pairs with Orion. Light.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 ESBERN:\b0  among the masters' books like a starving man at a feast -- and the one who says the OTHER quiet part: "The Wall shows a council of heroes when the Dragonborn fails. It never shows what holds the SKY up while they argue. Now we know."\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Down the inner stair. The hum fades above; something older hums below.   \b -> 11  THE UNDERCROFT\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 11   THE RITUAL IN THE UNDERCROFT -- Gaelen at the root\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i The boss. ZONE 3 -- the worst weather. Objective: DISRUPT THE RITUAL. Gaelen escapes by design; Jasper does not.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The undercroft is older than the monastery above it -- a vaulted root-cellar of the world, columns of living rock, wide as their cart, running down into shadow. Red light comes up out of channels carved into the floor with repeating Daedric script, all of them running inward to a central well where the mountain's root stands exposed -- a pillar as wide as High Hrothgar's whole front wall, rock too dense to have grain or seam, veined now with fresh black cracks where the sap has forced its way through, climbing toward an array of obsidian shards arranged in a blooming spiral.\line\line A Bosmer moves through the array unhurried, crimson chitin catching the light, one arm a grafted mass of charred heartwood and obsidian that gestures at things he is not looking at. He is adjusting each shard with the care of a man tuning an instrument he loves.\line\line Without turning, in a voice that is warm and genuinely pleased: 'Oh -- visitors. Good. I hoped the mountain would manage to be heard. Come in, come in. You are not interrupting; nothing can interrupt this. But company is rare, and I have wanted to meet you for the longest time.'"\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  If a player can read Daedric or thinks to try: the carved script repeats one line -- "THE TOWER TOUCHES ALL THE MANTLES OF HEAVEN" -- lifted straight from the Mysterium Xarxes commentary (The Dawn Is Yours, Section VIII). Confirms, in the players' own hands rather than Esbern's mouth, that this ritual and the doctrine he described are the same order, two hundred years apart.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 GAELEN -- HOW HE PLAYS (unsettling, never evil)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 GAELEN DOES NOT FIGHT THIS ENCOUNTER.\b0  He spends the whole scene trying to bring them over, not defending himself -- Jasper is the one who fights, and the anchors are the only obstacle. If a player attacks him directly, he does not retaliate. He keeps talking.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2\b0 The warm, sincere, reasonable CENTER of an apocalypse. He talks like an ally trying to get compatriots to stop suffering for a stagnant world: the Aedra gave mortals a CELL -- linear time, fragile flesh; Dagon offers the KEY; the Unmaking is HEALING.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE QUIET WISH (plant it -- overheard when he thinks no one listens, to no one):\b0  "I want it to be perfect. Please... let it be perfect." Not a plea, not a crack in a mask -- the closest thing his altered architecture has to hope. Every projection the players make onto it will be slightly wrong. He should leave the table unable to dismiss him.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE YLVA EXCHANGE (give both liturgies one beat, out loud):\b0  GAELEN: "Rules are the bars, hunter. I am unbending them." YLVA (shaking with a fury even she cannot name): "The rules are what make the hunt HOLY. Prey runs, hunter chases, the fastest wins -- that is the whole church. You are not freeing anything. You are pissing on the game." The most theologically serious person in the room about why the Unmaking is wrong is the werewolf.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 ALFONSO -- the duel only he can have (Orion, carrying him this leg, feels it land through the working before a word is said):\b0  GAELEN (finding the rapier in the room without being shown it): "You of all things know the cage, brother. Rot is the door. Help me open it." ALFONSO (aloud, after a pause one beat too long -- the pause IS the almost): "Decay FEEDS, gardener. The leaf rots so the root eats. Yours starves. You are not opening a door -- you are salting the field it stood in." Quiet horror for Orion's player to sit with: how close his own ally's philosophy runs to the abyss, and how long he took to answer.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 IF A PLAYER NAMES MYTHIC DAWN / CAMORAN TO HIM:\b0  His hands keep working the shards while he answers, unhurried. "Mythic Dawn. Yes." A beat. "Does the name trouble you more than anything I've actually said?"\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 HIRCINE'S TEMPTATION (Saijah -- station 6, in the doorway of the boss)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Just before or during the fight, the Hunter's voice -- the morning after Kynareth finally spoke: "Little sentinel. That noise in your skull. I can make it STOP." He is not lying. THE HIDDEN COST he simply does not mention: the channel that screams is the same channel the goddess speaks through -- silence the pain and you silence KYNARETH (the Mzinchaleft principle: silence is not always peace). NO weredog offer, NO choice resolved here -- the senses may sharpen a moment (a taste), and the offer HANGS. If the player accepts outright anyway, do not block it -- but that is her player firing the crossroads early, not the module.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE FIGHT -- DISRUPT THE WORKING\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa140\b Frame it out loud (again): the objective is the RITUAL.\b0  The spiral array feeds the sap-lines into the root. Break enough of it and the working collapses. Gaelen defends the work, not himself; Jasper defends GAELEN.\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE ARRAY:\b0  5 anchor-shards (obsidian, waist-high). Each: \b 25 HP, DR 10\b0  -- or a \b Hard Might (-4)\b0  wrench to topple one bodily, or Orion's tonal counter-note (\b Hard Magic -4\b0 , guided by his Scene 10 mapping) to crack one at range. Every anchor down weakens the weather one step in here (Zone 3 -> 2 -> 1...); at THREE down the working is DISRUPTED (win condition); all five down = staunched as clean as this ever gets.\par

\pard\sa100\f1\fs20 ZONE 3 TEMPO, restated for this fight (alarm ~6 min): 1-4 Frozen | 5-8 Dragging | 9-12 In step | 13-17 Quickened | 18-20 Unmoored. Any natural 1 or 20 also triggers a SECONDARY HORROR -- d20 on the master card's sub-table (delayed resolution / retroactive damage / echo-step / doubled-then-lost turn / initiative reshuffle). The cultists cheat it, the party endures it, and every anchor destroyed evens the game a step -- the mechanical arc IS the story arc.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f1\fs20 GAELEN THE ROOT-TWISTER (Apex Villain -- full sheet: Npcs/new mythic dawn leader)\b0\line Magic 21 (cannot fail a Magic roll)  Agility 17  Guile 15  Might 8\line HP 40 (Paradise Mantle: regen -- outheal or shut off)  |  FP 35  |  DR 22 (23 vs spells)\line Mythic Dawn chitin skin; Daedric graft-arm acts on its own initiative.\line HE IS NOT HERE TO DIE: at disruption (3 anchors down) he PHASES -- the collapsing\line weather releases his half-untimed soul and he falls back to the Eldergleam plan.\line If somehow cornered before that, he spends everything to phase early.\line These stats are for escape only -- he never initiates an attack this encounter.\line\line\b JASPER AVALON (lieutenant -- ~AP 10 character build; he does NOT retreat)\b0\line Dunmer mage, THE ATRONACH. Might 4  Agility 6  Magic 19  Guile 12\line HP 9 (glass -- his defense is absorption and ash)  |  FP 16  |  DR 8 (Ebonyflesh up)\line SPELL ABSORPTION (Atronach stone): once per combat, negates a hostile spell\line and regains its FP cost.  Ancestor's Wrath (Dunmer): 1/adventure fire aura.\line Casts: Incinerate (9 FP, 12 dmg) | Ash Shell (4 FP, Might roll or encased 2 rds)\line | Ash Rune (10 FP) | Lightning Bolt (3 FP). Tide-shard graft: cheats Tempo.\line FIGHTS TO THE END defending the ritual space. Dies here. One-and-done.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE JASPER REVEAL (via Gaelen -- this is how the consent lands loud)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Present the recognition to Davinia's player first and plainly: Davinia KNEW this man -- Jasper Avalon, dead in the Pale Lady's tomb -- and Ismara holds that memory. What she does with recognizing him is hers. Then GAELEN (mild, without pausing his work): "It seems you were familiar with this vessel... that is unfortunate, for he is gone. As for his flesh -- he gave it to the Dawn."\par

\pard\sa140 Jasper was a secret Dagon devotee IN LIFE -- a lone worshipper, long before he died in the Pale Lady's tomb. Nothing was stolen. If the party tries to TALK to him, he CAN speak -- and what he says is worse than silence: he is content. The empty, discarded man was told his emptiness was HOLY, and he gave himself gladly, because it was the first time anything ever wanted him.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  VICTIM vs WILLING is the differentiator from the Echo: Kyboh was stolen (rage FOR him); Jasper GAVE himself (nothing to save). Do not soften either half.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 GAELEN'S ESCAPE (at 3 anchors down -- run it exactly)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The third anchor cracks and the whole undercroft LURCHES -- the red light guttering, the sap-lines withering back out of the root like ivy burned at the stem. Gaelen watches it happen with his head tilted, the way a man watches weather ruin a picnic.\line\line 'Hm. Unfinished, then.' He looks at you -- genuinely, unhurriedly interested. 'You finally showed up. Do you know, I had begun to think no one was coming, all these years. How wonderful. Something new.'\line\line The broken time reaches for him and he steps INTO it, the way you would step into a doorway -- and he is a half-second behind himself, and then a full second, and then he is an afterimage the room forgets to keep."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  He falls back to the ELDERGLEAM -- the primary plan the party has never touched, still running perfectly. They did not beat him; they interrupted a man who reached for a second prize. He recurs with a grievance now attached -- curious, not vengeful. Scarier.\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  The weather stills. The mountain stops shaking. It is not healed.   \b -> 12  THE SEALING & THE COST\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 12   THE SEALING & THE COST -- staunched, not sealed\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i The curtain. Rewards, the seeds that finish growing AFTER, and the doors this module opens.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The masters come down the inner stair when the shaking stops -- slowly, holding the walls, men walking after weeks at an oar. Arngeir stands a long time at the wounded root, where the black lines have withered to scars in the stone.\line\line 'Staunched,' he says at last. 'A cut finger, bound. The body of the thing that attacked this mountain is still out there, and still working.' He looks at each of you in turn, and bows -- the full bow, to all of you. 'The Way of the Voice is open to you. It is a small thing to offer the people who held up the sky. It is what we have.'"\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 REWARDS\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 1 AP each\b0  (a full fire completed) -- plus dragon-kill AP if any dragon somehow died this module (it should not have).\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 The Way of the Voice:\b0  High Hrothgar open as sanctuary + scholarship; the masters know WHERE Word Walls are for specific shouts a seeker might want (they cannot shout them; reference, not power).\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Loot:\b0  the zealots' tide-shards, inert now -- crystallized wrong-time, priceless to a researcher and mildly unwholesome to carry. NORA wants them badly and says so out loud. Whether ISMARA wants them is her player's business -- just make sure the player knows what they are. Ivarstead half-returns as word spreads the mountain has quieted.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 SEEDS PLANTED (they finish growing AFTER the module -- do not harvest early)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Saijah's realization (station 7, ON THE ROAD OUT, days later):\b0  gildergreens + the Throat + the word TOWER + TWO migraines finally assemble -- one tree, it is a Tower, TWO Towers are under attack, and there is a HEART she has never found. The module plants; the realization grows. Let her player say it first if they get there.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 The heart-hunt -> DANICA:\b0  the true Eldergleam's location is the chosen sisters' deepest secret (a women's mystery -- no man may ever know). Three living sisters: Danica, one in Whiterun (cold to the Lanterns -- Danica's letters made the party the temple's cautionary tale), one visiting Solitude. The road to the cure runs through the reconciliation. The braid is now load-bearing.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 The two cure-routes (set up, never forced):\b0  KYNARETH -- heal the heart (needs Danica). HIRCINE -- no Danica needed at all: the Alpha and the cull. If reconciliation looks impossible, Hircine's road becomes the shortcut priced in Saijah's soul.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Node-saving (the standing open door):\b0  every gildergreen node is SAVEABLE; the party has simply kept not going. From here on, offer node-defense chances on the road; the Solitude node (slow, strong, a chosen sister already present) is the best first savable win.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Valerius knows everything\b0  the Ring saw -- the Tower, the apocalypse, the party's capabilities. File it; spend it later.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Gaelen, unfinished:\b0  "you finally showed up." The Eldergleam campaign continues off-screen. He is curious about them now. That is worse.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 CONSEQUENCE LEDGER (what the OTHER fires did while they climbed)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Fire A (Krusp & Danica at Windhelm):\b0  rumor arrives -- the plague fought to a standstill at a cost. Danica's cough, when they finally hear her again, has teeth in it. [Attrition canon: her lungs.]\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Fire C (ignored -- Bleak Falls):\b0  Antoine rebuilds unobserved on top of the Dragonstone. The 6-8 week Strain 2.0 clock RUNS. Esbern says the Dragonstone line again on the road out. He will keep saying it.\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  The cart rolls down out of the grey hills with the mountain quiet behind it -- and the Dragonstone pressure, the Dirge reckoning, and the road to Bleak Falls ahead.   \b -> NEXT MODULE: FIRE C / BLEAK FALLS\b0\par
}
 