{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Segoe UI;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Segoe UI;}{\f2\fmodern Consolas;}}
{\colortbl ;\red124\green22\blue22;\red0\green0\blue0;\red110\green110\blue110;\red150\green20\blue20;\red150\green70\blue0;\red22\green46\blue120;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sb60\sa40\cf1\b\f0\fs44\lang9 FIRE B -- THE ROAD & THE BLEEDING STAIR\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\cf3\i Riften gates -> the foot of the 7,000 Steps -> Ivarstead -> the undercroft of High Hrothgar. The campaign's relaunch: one place, one escalating problem, a clean arc with a curtain. ~3 sessions. Self-contained -- run the whole fire from this file.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20 \sb60\sa220\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE SPINE (hold these three lines all module)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 This is an INTRODUCTION.\b0  It ADVANCES threads and RESOLVES nothing personal. Saijah chooses NO patron. Gaelen does NOT die. The crossroads is loaded, never fired.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Frame the objective OUT LOUD as THE RITUAL, never as Gaelen's head.\b0  If they think the mission is 'kill Gaelen,' his escape is a robbery. If they know it is 'stop the Unmaking,' his escape is just Thursday.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Secrets that must hold:\b0  Bjorn's speed reads as REJUVENATION, never Dragonborn (no one can sense a Dragonborn -- not even the Greybeards, who have NO special senses of any kind). Ismara stays unwitnessed by the monastery. The two scout dragons' target stays unknowable.\f1\lang1033  [we may want to prepare a map so we can tell them the direction the dragons are flying off in, a player paying close attention should be able to orient themselves enough to figure out they are heading towards riften.]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa140\b Roster on the move:\b0  Davinia (ISMARA fronting -- silver skin), Saijah (bearing ALFONSO the rapier), Orion. Cart: Bjorn, Mila, Esbern (hidden until Scene 1), Nora, GEAR, Ylva, Varon. Animals: Mable (old, dragon-shaken) + the BLACK MARE (fearless warhorse -- sheet: Npcs/the black mare). Krusp & Danica are GONE to Windhelm. \b Everyone climbs\b0  -- Part Two explains why in fiction.\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20 \sb60\sa220\par

\pard\sb120\sa200\cf1\b\fs40 PART ONE -- THE ROAD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\cf3\i A quiet leg doing three jobs: re-introduce Esbern (comedy + strategy), give the table a breath (respite + personal threads), and teach that the dragons own the sky (the hide). Normal physics the whole way; the first faint time-wrongness only at the very end.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 GM RULES -- "TWO SHADOWS" (the dragon hide)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f2\fs20 THE NOTICE CLOCK -- 6 boxes, starts empty. Not a fight; a hide.\b0\line Two Krosulhah-tier dragons hunt overhead; they tick toward awareness on the\line party's OWN mistakes. 5 COMPLICATION BEATS, each tied to a party asset.\line Responsible character rolls vs an escalating difficulty:\line   Beat 1 Easy(+2) -> Beat 2 Standard(0) -> Beat 3 Hard(-4) -> Beat 4 Hard(-4)\line   -> Beat 5 Very Hard(-6)\line Success: contained, no Notice.   Failure: Notice +1.\line Fumble (nat 20): Notice +2; a dragon banks toward them (next beat one step harder).\line Crit (nat 1): active masking -- Notice -1 (min 0); next beat one step easier.\line PROACTIVE PLAY: every smart move drops the next beat a step or grants Advantage\line (douse fires, still the cart, Orion scouts breathless, Ismara sheathes heat in\line cold, GEAR powers down on permission). Say YES to cleverness.\line FAIL STATE (Notice 6): spotted -> they dive. TELEGRAPH the unwinnability hard\line BEFORE this. If they fight anyway it is a TPK and you warned them.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa140\b THE FIVE TELLS:\b0  1) MABLE SPOOKS -- Bjorn rolls (animal handling); the Black Mare in harness beside her = one step EASIER (the fearless horse steadies the frightened one). 2) GEAR HUMS -- Saijah/Orion (Guile); GEAR needs PERMISSION to power down (Cognitorium callback). 3) ALFONSO'S ROT-AURA drifts downwind -- Saijah (bearer); auto-success if she lets Alfonso pull the aura tight through the link. 4) A SMALL HUMAN SOUND (Mila's frightened breath) -- Bjorn or Saijah; comforting her IS the roll. 5) HEAT BLOOM -- Davinia/Ismara can sheathe the cart's warmth in cold -- but using the gift is a quiet temptation (the sweet pull of the power).\f1\lang1033  [with the formating we need to change this a bit, it is confusing which parts are gm pre read and which parts are where the game starts. it needs to be far more visually aparent to the user what goes where, this segmentation will also help ensure that the app parser will work better and help us nail down exactly how formatting will work for that, maybe the above text needs to be smaller and in a differnent font? idk open to suggestion]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 1   THE OPEN ROAD -- and the man in the floor\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i Set once Riften is well behind them. Purpose: the breath, and Esbern's comedy re-entry.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\f1\lang1033  [this should start a little further back, theres no establishing sentence to get them into the game, its just youre already moving and watching something shrink away, we should start at them waking up packing and leaving before this, small addition]\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\lang9\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The gates of Riften shrink behind you, and the road's first long bend folds them away into\f1\lang1033  the grassy\f0\lang9  golden hills\f1\lang1033 .\f0\lang9  The road climbs. The autumn light is thin and clean, the cart wheels find their rhythm, and mile by mile an old, half-forgotten feeling settles over the company: ease. Full packs. Paid coin. Warm bread from Riften's ovens still soft in the saddlebags, sun on your backs, and a road that asks only that you follow it.\line\line Mable plods. The new black mare walks beside her with her head high and her ears forward, unhurried, reading the hills\f1\lang1033  for movement\f0\lang9  the whole \f1\lang1033 time\f0\lang9 . And from somewhere under the cart's floorboards, muffled by canvas and the false bottom, a dry old voice says, with enormous dignity: '...Are we far enough now? My legs fell asleep a day ago.'\f1\lang1033  [no, this isnt right this doesnt carry the humor or suddenness of the moment the way it should needs a slight rephrase]\f0\lang9 "\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Nobody has thought about Esbern since Riften. Let it land -- a pause, the slow dawning. Play it for the laugh.\f1\lang1033  [once again these sections need a slightly different format, we already color code the read aloud we should with this as well and again maybe a different font and smaller text?]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa140\b ESBERN\b0  (climbing out, stiff, blinking at the open sky): "You forgot me. Two days. The last loremaster of the Blades -- the one man alive who can read Alduin's Wall -- and I have been riding under your floor with the turnips, because every single one of you forgot I was there." (beat) "Magnificent. Truly. The fate of the world is in careful hands."\f1\lang1033  [no this doesnt work, this sounds too much like me the gm scolding the players. further how the hell would esbern even know if they forgot him or not, he should start by assuming they didnt and the reaction should go from there if they can hide it well or not. if its clear they forgot him to him then what we wrote above makes sense. but what if they convinced him that they didnt and were also hiding him from the thalmor or something]\f0\lang9\par
\b Why he was down there\b0  (if asked): "The Thalmor have a standing warrant on me, and Riften is crawling with their eyes. Out here I am just an old man on a cart. Now -- where are we going, and what fresh end of the world am I to help you with?"\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Once the laugh settles, he reaches back into the false bottom and pulls out the board.   \b -> 2  ESBERN'S WEB\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 2   ESBERN'S WEB -- the strategic briefing\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i Never a wall of lore. He shows them the web and they pull answers out of it by touching pins.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sa140 He unrolls a cracked hide map weighted with stones, and over it a folding lap-board strung with pins and twine -- thirty years of his Ratway walls condensed into one carryable object. \b TWO COLORS OF THREAD, and he is fanatical about never letting them touch.\f1\lang1033  [we should make an image of this, an svg that i can convert to a graphic]\b0\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 RED THREAD -- the dragons (a war)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2\b0 Five sleeping priests, each pinned to a tomb: \b NAHKRIIN -- VOKUN -- RAHGOT -- OTAR -- MOROKEI.\b0  Rahgot's pin has been moved OFF its tomb and left dangling (their own report: he rose and walked out). Esbern keeps touching the dangling pin like a sore tooth.\f1\lang1033  [we need a moment where he says he overheard them talking about it is how he knows. i think this whole section will need a read aloud actually]\f0\lang9\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2\b0 Above all five, a sixth marker: \b KONAHRIK.\b0  "When the five become one, the faithful shall ascend."\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2\b0 Kynesgrove -- the first grave they watched come alive. Dozens of burial mounds in fading ink. And the HOOK: \b blank spaces\b0  -- mounds he knows exist and cannot place. He hates the blanks more than he hates the Thalmor.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 GREY THREAD -- the root-rot (an unmaking)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2\b0 The Eldergleam, corrupted. The 7,000 Steps, bleeding. The Throat of the World, circled three times in charcoal. NOT ONE thread crosses from grey to red -- and if a player ties them together, Esbern physically stops their hand: "No. Two ends of the world, two different authors. Muddle them and you'll parry the wrong one."\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 WHAT HE SAYS AT THE PINS (in pieces, reacting to what THEY know)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 On the two apocalypses:\b0  "Two different ends, walking toward us from two directions. The dragons want to rule a dead world. These root-rotters -- Dagon's people -- want there to be nothing left to rule. The dragons are a war. The other thing is an unmaking."\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 On where they're going:\b0  "The Throat of the World is not just the dragons' holy mountain. It is a PILLAR -- one of the stones that holds the floor of the world up. If the cult cracks it, time itself runs in the cellar. That's what your archer feels."\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 The thing he actually wants\b0  (taps a blank spot): "Bleak Falls Barrow. There is a stone in it -- the Dragonstone -- a map of every dragon grave in Skyrim. Without it we wait for each dragon to find US. Everything we do until we have that stone is a flinch, not a plan." -> Plant it. Don't resolve it. He will say it again the whole campaign.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Esbern is the lore-dump risk incarnate. NEVER let him monologue -- cut him off with a complication, a question, a beat of Ylva groaning. The clue is in the conversation, never in the dump.\f1\lang1033  [yes we need a read aloud for this section for sure, it is too sensitive for me to improv in the moment surely something will leak and we need very clear guides for what he says if questioned about certain things so that i dont drift too far, think also we need his response for when he finds out they are going to ivarstead and the greybeards]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Dusk finds lantern light around the road's next bend.   \b -> 3  THE TENT FAIR\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 3   THE RESPITE -- Ahkari's tent fair\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i A deliberate breath. Warmth, color, the world being alive. NO threat.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The road bends around a stand of red oaks and the dusk ahead is full of lantern light. A ring of \f1\lang1033 eight \f0\lang9 tents\f1\lang1033 ,\f0\lang9  dyed saffron and sea-green and patched \f1\lang1033 and patched \f0\lang9 a hundred times\f1\lang1033  over, [note the change i made and intuit why i made it]\f0\lang9  stand pitched on the flat ground off the verge, arranged like a \f1\lang1033 little\f0\lang9  \f1\lang1033 villiage\f0\lang9  with a cookfire \f1\lang1033 at the center\f0\lang9 . Rugs are rolled out between the tents and laid with goods: rows of stoppered bottles, hanging bundles of dried herbs, blades in shapes you don't see in Nord smithies\f1\lang1033 , some of the swords are even curved, whod have thought, a curved sword\f0\lang9 . Pack-laden travois\f1\lang1033  [we should use a differnt more easy to understand word]\f0\lang9  lean against the tentpoles; these people came on FOOT, carrying all of it.\f1\lang1033  [it would be easier to just note that there are no horses or carts and would paint a better picture, we should be describing what they as the party notice not giving them conclusions straight up, like them noticing a conspicous lack of horses or carts, or that they are the only ones there with horses and carts would be better than just telling them "yeah, and these guys? whelp they actually WALK everywhere" it just sounds so smug and weird the way its written now, like we think were writing a novel instead of a tabletop ya know what i mean? like its currently written to be read instead of written to be heared and processed. we have to write knowing in the moment some may get left out or i may be interuppted and that the listeners will never ever be able to read any of this]\f0\lang9\line\line A Khajiit in a coat of a hundred patches spreads her arms wide as you approach. 'Ah -- travelers! Good ones, this one can tell, the road is kinder with company. Come, come -- Ahkari has tea, has trinkets, has STORIES, and the stories are free because no one buys them anyway.'"\f1\lang1033  [same problem "and the stories are free cause no one buys them anyway!" what are we doing.. thats not good dialog or what a traveling merchant who explicitly is trying to get these people to buy things from the caravan would say. this is extremely generic and just.. its wrong subtley in an important way. the content what is being communicated is fine the kahjit accent comes through and everything but the words are just wrong. especially at the end there. also if shes going to offer stories we explicitly need to prepare fireside stories for her to tell. this should be more of a navigable space where they can go and choose to participate in something, trade a meal, a story a song, idle chat etc. the stories should be told in the traditional kahjit oral tradition performance style and i think it should be a "fire island players" moment where the party gets to see some of their own exploits retold through the eyes of the world as it percieves them.]\cf2\i0\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa140\b Why the tents\b0  (only if asked; she says it lightly, an old wound worn smooth): the cities do not let Khajiit inside the walls. So they build their own little towns outside them, a night at a time -- a traveling fair of everything the walled markets never stock.\f1\lang1033  \f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 TRADE -- the exotic fair\f1\lang1033  [we should actually prepare an item list for all of this, the standard lists dont work, all of this stuff is exotic and unique and cant be purchased anywhere else so it should not be normal stuff i can just pull from the gear lists]\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\lang9\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Alchemists:\b0  rare reagents the Rift's shops never carry (ash-country fungi, marsh venoms, moon sugar derivatives) -- feeds the Ismara cure-thread and Nora's bench.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Exotic weapons:\b0  blades and bows from outside Skyrim's smithing traditions -- Gear-list racial styles, an Envenomed hunting bow, quality poisons (a Paralysis Poison at a price). Plus arrows for Saijah, small enchanted oddments, road food. Fair-ish prices; haggling is social, not a fight.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 RUMORS (roll d20 or pick)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 1-5:\b0  "Ivarstead is emptying. Half the village ran. The other half is too poor or too stubborn -- and something's wrong with the TIME up the steps. A pilgrim walked three days and came down having aged a week."\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 6-10:\b0  "Windhelm sealed its gates. Plague. They say the Stormcloak army is rotting from the inside -- and that two strangers, a grim swordsman and a coughing priestess, walked IN when everyone sane was walking out." [Krusp & Danica, heard as rumor.]\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 11-15:\b0  "Black-Briar's looking for someone. Quiet-like. Ahkari does not ask who; Ahkari likes her throat where it is." [Seeds the Dirge thread without naming it.]\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 16-19:\b0  "The sky's been WRONG east of here. A hunter swore he saw a dragon -- a real one. Two of them. Going toward the Rift." [The scouts, third-hand; the target stays unknowable.]\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 20:\b0  "You've a sword that watches people. No -- don't show Ahkari. Some things this one is happier not knowing." [She has noticed Alfonso. Let it sit.]\par

\pard\sa140\b A small human moment:\b0  Ahkari's people have a child too -- and Mila, who has spent her whole life learning to be invisible, watches the caravan kids play with the careful hunger of a girl who has never been allowed to. Let Bjorn notice. The warm thing in the chapter.\f1\lang1033  [yes this is good she watches the other kids playing and will not go unless given explicit permission to go play and encouraged that shes alowed, lets reframe the rumors thing so its the kahjit trying to gather info from the lanterns about these rumors "i heard this, have you heard anything about it?" type dialog make sense?]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Camp, a mile on. The last easy night.\f1\lang1033  [theres a very big possibility the players will want to set up camp with the kahjit caravan and we must prepare for that possibility]\f0\lang9    \b -> 4  THE CAMP VIGNETTES\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 4   DOWNTIME & CONNECTION -- the camp vignettes\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i Fire going, no walls, no Thalmor. Sequential vignettes: GM sets the situation and plays NPCs; players drive entirely. Never write a player's line or decision.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 VIGNETTE 1 -- ISMARA'S WORK (early evening, by the fire)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Ismara (Davinia's player at the wheel) settles with the Forelhost Codex open, the rapier in reach. She brings ONE specific technical question about Alfonso's rot-frequency vs the engineered strain, and opens the floor. AIM: she is WARM here -- genuinely useful, genuinely engaged, no manipulation running. CDI does NOT tick. This is the honey, not the sting.\f1\lang1033  [ah yes we need to prepare the ismara notes version of the codex so the player can read it as ismara would understand it but also this is confusingly phrased i do not understand what you are directing the gm to do at all here. ismara is the player so this section doesnt make sense to me. what situation have we presented the player with how are they supposed to engage with this situation at all, we basically said "okay ismara you are reading a book! what do you do?" the fuck is the player supposed to do with that?]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If the thread engages:\b0  the cure-work advances; something in her settles, briefly, into something almost human. The warmth IS the trap working as designed.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If it doesn't:\b0  she closes the Codex, notes the absence without comment, and rises.\par

\pard\sa140\b CLOSING BEAT -- YLVA (fires the moment Ismara rises; run it HERE so it cannot be skipped):\b0  Ylva has watched the whole time, and Ylva does not brood -- she acts. She crosses the fire and puts herself in Ismara's path. She doesn't have words for what she's feeling and doesn't reach for them: she challenges -- a spar, an arm-wrestle, something immediate and physical. She wants contact with the silver woman and doesn't know if she wants to fight her or hold her. She is in front of her now, and she is waiting.\f1\lang1033  [what? this entire vignette is extremely confusing i do not understand it at all or what your goal is or whats being advanced here i think it needs to be entirely rebuilt from the ground up cause nothing about this makes any sense at all if its confusing me it will upset the player and make them feel stupid instead of empowered]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  ISMARA'S CHOICE (player-driven): engage, deflect with cool precision, or walk past -- all three land. Ylva walks away with something she didn't have before, and it isn't what she wanted; she sharpens her axe and looks at no one for the rest of the night. \f1\lang1033\{G\f0\lang9 M CALL: if it reads wrong at the table, cut it clean -- nothing downstream depends on it.\f1\lang1033\} [yeah we have to completely redo this nothing about this makes any sense at all and doesnt give the player or the npc anything to do or anyway to move things forward its structurally pointless adn functionally confusing.]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 VIGNETTE 2 -- NORA + GEAR (early evening, edge of firelight)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Nora with her notes on a flat stone, asking GEAR about phylacteries -- specifically whether a soul anchored in an object can be COPIED rather than transferred. GEAR answers with complete technical precision and no filter; he is describing Hjolmar's mechanism and does not know it is dangerous. The rapier is across the fire. Her eyes go to it twice.\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2\b0 Does anyone notice? Does anyone intervene? She knows more by the end of it than she did at the start, regardless.\f1\lang1033  [no this doesnt work, we cant have a vignette with 2 npcs alone. thats the players watching me interact with myself. this doesnt work unless it involves a player somehow. this should be nora trying to interact with alfonso and have gear analyze him or something like that, further something like this you cant just leave as a note like this that doesnt work im supposed to invent high level technical explanations of tonal physics on the spot? ridiculous this needs read aloud sections and stuff this whole part is poorly done and lazily built vignette 2 needs rebuilt as well.]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 VIGNETTE 3 -- NORA'S COUNSEL (mid-evening; MUST run before Vignette 4)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa140 Nora has decided that tonight she decides about Orion. And Nora is a researcher: before any experiment, she gathers data. Three consultations, in ascending order of danger.\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 SAIJAH\b0  (a PC -- frame the ask, the player answers): she asks straight, in her precise, over-prepared way: how do you know when wanting something is worth what it costs? She has rehearsed the question and none of the possible answers. Whatever Saijah gives her, she writes NONE of it down -- the first thing all week she hasn't taken notes on.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 YLVA\b0  (NPC -- sharpening, doesn't stop): "You want him? Go lie down next to him. If he says no, come back and sharpen something. Why is this a conversation." (beat, the closest she comes to tenderness tonight) "Wanting things isn't complicated, little witch. People just make it complicated so they can lose slower."\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 ISMARA\b0  (player-driven -- AIM only): the dangerous one. She files everything, never lies, and is one of the only beings in camp who can SEE the Ring on Orion's finger for what it is -- and she does not spend true things unless they buy trust. A warning would be true, kind, and a deposit in the account of a girl whose soul-vessel research fascinates her. Or she says something warm and general and keeps the Ring for a better price. Open the floor; the choice is entirely the player's.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Nora hears all three, then does what she always does with data: draws her own conclusion anyway. She walks toward Orion's edge of the camp.\f1\lang1033  [this is how you do an npc vignette shes adressing players. however you made it so she asks ylva alone once again that would be me talking to myself while the party watches. all of these need better thought out and the order needs to be settled as well. if nora is going to ask ylva and ismara then just have it so ismaras vignette works out for nora to approach the two of them during it! do you get what im saying? the vignettes are for the PLAYERS! if we need to advance an npc story with them it needs to be done through the lens of interacting with the PLAYERS! npcs do not get their own vignettes they got to interact with the PLAYERS during the PLAYERS VIGNETTEs]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 VIGNETTE 4 -- NORA & ORION (late evening; fire burned low)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  She sits down next to him -- close. This has been building a long time; tonight she decides. What she brings is earnestness: she is 18 and means it completely. She tells him something true -- why she is here, what she wants from him specifically -- and makes herself available. The choice belongs to Orion.\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If Orion does not engage:\b0  she accepts it without drama, says goodnight, goes to her bedroll. The door stays open. Nothing is destroyed.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If Orion engages:\b0  they sleep together. The night is theirs. Nothing interrupts it.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  EITHER WAY -- THE RING SAW ALL OF IT. It always does. Somewhere in Solitude, Valerius files the most valuable thing this night produced: the empty man still leans toward ONE thing, and now it has a name. NORA. When the reckoning comes (Part One's final scene -- it does NOT fire here), he arrives already holding that lever.\f1\lang1033  [once again you got lazy and just wrote roughly what happens instead of writing out the scene. i dont know why you suddenly got so lazy on this job but its unacceptable. this vignete is supposed to be a high emotion roleplay moment where orion gets a chance to have an actual real human connection and you made it barely more than a footnote here. nora has been gathering advice all night about how to do this, almost all the vignetes cross over with nora and this moment the whole thing is building towards this and you crap out now? very disapointed.]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 VIGNETTE 5 -- SAIJAH & VARON (late evening, after camp quiets)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  The migraine -- which Alfonso's rot-aura had been quietly dampening -- is coming back: a low directional ache, pointing south, toward the mountains. She knows what it means. Tomorrow will be different. Then VARON steps into the light across the camp, just far enough to be visible. He meets her eyes. A small gesture, no pressure: come talk, or don't.\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If she comes:\b0  he apologizes -- plainly, without excuse. He fled her at the moment she needed steadiness and knows the cost. He does not ask forgiveness; he offers presence.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If she doesn't:\b0  in the morning there is a small carved piece left near her bedroll, made overnight. An apology in object form. He will not approach again unless she comes to him. He means it.\f1\lang1033  [write out what he says. this is the same laziness probelm where you decide some scenes arent that important and dont deserve the full treatment. untrue. this is a huge moment and it deserves care. i can not express how disapointed i am that you would do this and pass it off as acceptable. this is barely better than if i genuinely just improved it from memory, this give me nothing this gives you nothing this doesnt do anything to help reestablish the correct single adventure format it literally just hurts us both, it gives me nothing to critique or work with all i can say is "bad job, you didnt actually do anything here"]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 VIGNETTE 6 -- BJORN & MILA (late evening, at the cart)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Mila can't sleep -- up on the cart, blanket around her shoulders, watching the coals. Bjorn has kept a careful distance since she asked why he feels like more than one person. Tonight he closes it. He sits, lets the silence be what it is, then tells her something true -- what a promise actually WEIGHS. That he made one once and broke it and carried it forty years, and that he is not going to let that happen again. Plain, in the voice he uses for the things that matter.\par

\pard\sa140 Then he gets up and shows her: left side of the horse, breathing even, hands open. The black mare -- proud, unbothered by almost everything -- suffers the careful child where she suffers nobody else. Mila brushes the mare. Somewhere in the middle of it her hands stop shaking. Bjorn watches her face and does not let her see him watching.\f1\lang1033  [the same problem again lazy and you created a scene that is just me the gm interacting with myself the gm while all the players just watch. this isnt fun for them. this doesnt give them anything to do. saijah and alfonso are co parents of mila why arent you routing this interaction through them? this vignette is useless almost all of them are cause you didnt treat them with the seriousness and intention they deserve. these are the most vital moments of interaction to the player this is when character development happens this is when the players learn themselves and their companions. take it seriously and give our players the attention to detail and willingness to atleast create the session that they deserve. we are done with this half ass i just make it up on the spot bullshit, we are going to be prepared we are going to make excellent modules we are going to hold ourselves to the highest standard of quality on earth we will outdo hasbro and wizards of the coast on our own and you will not ever get lazy like you did with this section ever again.]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Morning. The open stretch.   \b -> 5  THE HIDE\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 5   THE SHADOW ON THE SNOW -- the hide\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i The set-piece. Two dragons, open ground, a child and an old man in a cart. The only play is to not be seen.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE TERRAIN (give the table ALL of it -- their plans are built from this)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE SADDLE:\b0  a mile and a half of open, snow-dusted ground between two low shoulders of rock; the road runs straight down the middle. The party is a THIRD of the way across when the shadows come -- too far in to go back, too far out to sprint the rest.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE SCREE BANK (north):\b0  a steep gravel embankment, 10-15 ft, undercut in places into shallow overhangs -- the ONLY overhead cover. The cart cannot get under it; people and horses pressed flat are out of a flying eye's sightline. It is LOOSE -- scree slides if handled carelessly (Scene 6 uses this).\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE MELT-DITCH (south):\b0  a frozen drainage cut, 3 ft deep, parallel to the road. A person can lie full-length in it; the cart cannot. Anyone in it is hidden from above but LYING ON ICE.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE CART:\b0  canvas over bows, dirty-white and grey -- from altitude, STILL, with fire-colors hidden, it can read as a wagon-shaped drift. MOVEMENT is what kills: wheels turning, animals shifting, faces looking up.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Nothing else.\b0  No trees, no walls, no structures for a mile in any direction.\line\f1\lang1033 [we need a battlemap for this i think we could do something special and make little animated moments for when the dragons fly over itd be cute. but also im not sure if the terrain described is right for travel in the rift to ivarstead. that area is full of trees its the only area in skyrim that rivals falkreath at all for lumber production and they are booming after what the party did in falkreath.]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The road tops a bare rise and the land opens -- a mile and more of white, empty saddle, the sky enormous over it, and you are a third of the way across when the sun goes out. Not a cloud. A SHADOW, vast and wing-shaped, pours across the snow ahead of the cart -- and your whole body understands it before your mind does, because there is a sound with it, the long tearing rhythm of wingbeats bigger than sails, and you have heard that sound exactly twice in your lives and both times people died. Then a SECOND shadow crosses the first.\line\line Two of them. Krosulhah -- the one that nearly killed all of you -- was ONE.\line\line They wheel out over the valley, unhurried, patient, reading the ground the way Saijah reads a trail. They are not passing through. They are LOOKING for something. And every one of you knows, in the animal floor of your brain where the truth lives: if those two shapes see this cart, there is no fight. There is no clever plan. There is only how far you get before the sky comes down. They have not seen you yet."\f1\lang1033  [good just need to reconsider that area description]\cf2\i0\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa140\b FRAME THE STAKES OUT LOUD:\b0  you fought ONE dragon and barely lived. There are TWO. On open ground. With a child and an old man in a cart. There is no version of this fight you survive. The only play is to not be seen. Then hand them the terrain and let them work.\f1\lang1033  [lets figure out exactly how to say this to the party in the moment without it seeming like im forcing them to do something they can attack and try to kill 2 dragons if they want, its just a bad idea but they are allowed to persue bad ideas]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Run the NOTICE CLOCK (rules block, top of Part One). Walk the five tells; reward every proactive idea. \b ESBERN\b0 , low, mid-tension: "Look at them. They aren't roosting -- they're RANGING. Ahead of something. Alduin is raising his kin and sending them out to look." He does NOT know their target; keep the dread general.\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If Notice fills:\b0  the nearer dragon's head turns, the throat lights from within -- RUN. Scatter, abandon the cart; Bjorn's speed (Scene 6) is the only thing that saves anyone. TPK is on the table and earned.\f1\lang1033  [where is the runclock the notice thing and the moments for that? you left those out entirely it seems. and only included beat 6 with bjorn, this is the sloppy work that we must avoid. this is supposed to be completely runable from just this document without me ever having to leave it but you left out the entire notice clock and dragon stuff like you left everything except the last scene there out. absolutley abysmall work on your part]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  At Beat 5, or on any failure that puts the dragons lowest -- the danger reaches Mila.   \b -> 6  BJORN'S SECOND FLARE\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 6   BJORN'S SECOND FLARE -- the worst moment\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The near dragon \f1\lang1033 swoops\f0\lang9  -- not at you, just LOW, a hunting pass, its \f1\lang1033 [hey this is some bullshit. whats happening is right but what the fuck is this writing, youre doing it again writing stuff to be read silently in someones head instead of writing something thats to be heard spoken aloud live at the table. the em dash the phrasing the "it swoops down, not at you, just.. low.. a hunting pass" what the fuck are you doing? thats not good writing that doesnt help the listener understand in fact the phrasing and syntax is intentionally confusing just so you can have the reveal that the dragon isnt diving at the players. thats bullshit its disrespectful to me and the time i put in with you, its disrepsctful to OUR players who bother to show up every week and love this world and its disrespectful to yourself. you know you can do better, stop trying to write for the lowest common denominator and take some fucking pride in your work.] \f0\lang9 downdraft slamming the saddle like a fist. The cart rocks. A loose drift of scree comes down off the bank above in a grinding slide -- straight at the front bench. Straight at Mila. She's frozen. Bjorn is at the rear of the cart, twenty feet and a full second too far, and there is no possible way the old man reaches her in time.\line\line He reaches her in time."\f1\lang1033  [ this whole section is some of the worst writing ive ever seen you produce. youre trying to create audible tension through ao3 fanfiction writing methodology. fanfiction notoriously is never written aloud and also done by complete amatures. this reads like an edgy 12 year old girl wrote it trying to sound compelling and verbose instead of by a competent purson trying to explain whats happening to a group of listeners. absolutley abysmal work you should be embarassed about this]\cf2\i0\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa140 For one impossible instant Bjorn CROSSES GROUND no man his age could cross -- there and gone, his body between the child and the falling stone -- and then he's just STANDING there, breathing hard, looking at his own hands like they belong to a stranger. Younger in the eyes than he was a second ago.\f1\lang1033  [same problem, this is the writing of a pretentios asshole instead of a friendly gm, also bjorn wouldnt be looking at his own hands or anything that cliched he wouldnt even notice what he did! this is not something alien to him! its his body going back to how it used to be! this is something that used to be mundane! its weird because hes old and shouldnt be able to anymore but hes just worried about mila! he wouldnt even care or notice about moving fast and wouldnt look concerend or whatever hes relieved he saved mila!]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  WHAT THE TABLE MAY CONCLUDE: the old mercenary is reviving -- youth, speed, the War-Hound returning. A rejuvenation. Eerie. That is ALL. The Dragonborn truth does NOT surface and must not leak (his FIRST flare was the Ratway stairs, Ch.21 -- one prior data point, still no word for it). Davinia, through Ismara's Sight, sees the doubled sun of his soul flare bright and bank down -- one more silent data point. Hold the secret.\par

\pard\sa140\b BJORN\b0  (gruff, not meeting anyone's eye): "...Adrenaline. You'd be fast too, with that thing overhead. Get her down. Keep moving."\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  The shadows shrink east and are gone. Choose: fire the RECKONING at the next camp, or hold it for Ivarstead.   \b -> THE RECKONING / 7\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 THE RECKONING -- Valerius comes in person\f1\lang1033  [youre right on placement i was thinking this at the kahjit caravan but this is much better timing on your part keep it here.]\cf2\b0\f0\fs24\lang9\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i GM CHOICE on timing: a later road-camp after the hide, or early at Ivarstead. Full build: Npcs/Valerius + scratch 19/22. Not a fight. Not survivable as one.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sa140 Seeded by Orion disobeying the Constance-enthrall order (Ch.24). Valerius Caelus, \b AP 30\f1\lang1033 -35 [well just set him at ap30 for now i think he can get stronger later]\b0\f0\lang9 , arrives at the camp IN THE FLESH -- the whole camp awake and watching, which is the point: a private punishment performed in public. The Contest Level-Gap Penalty (\b -20 to -25\b0  on any will-vs-will resistance) is the wall, and the rules back it.\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE ARRIVAL:\b0  no wings, no drama coming in -- he walks out of the dark into the firelight, courteous, unhurried, dressed like a visit. The Ring goes from cold to KILLING cold. (The mare -- FEARLESS, the one animal that stands -- goes utterly still and watches him. Use her.)\f1\lang1033  [no he doesnt at all! this is wrong! he makes orion stand up and walk away from the party against his will right to where valerius is watching from the shadows. the party should be like mid interaction a group moment or something and then suddenly with no roll or anything orion is standing up and walking away]\f0\lang9\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 BEAT 1 -- THE INTERROGATION (the camp hears every word):\b0  he does not ask where they are going. He asks Orion about THEM -- who loves whom, who needs what, who holds the sword and who the sword answers to. Orion answers; his blind spots protect the Crown, Bjorn, and what Davinia truly is (he doesn't know them). Resisting is will-vs-will at -20/-25 -- let a player try; let the die be the lesson.\f1\lang1033  [terrible whole thing needs redone. hes not infront of the whole party you idiot we went over this hes just talking to orion the whole point of the interrogation is that hes only talking to orion in secret without the party knowing hes done this! what the fuck are you doing! we planned this so carefully and you just fucked it all up for what? for a cliche moment that carries none of the weight of what we originally wrote! the whole moment where the players can follow orion or not and valerius doesnt care, like im not just disapointed my feelings are hurt that youd waste my time hours of planning and then just cut it out for no reason. i spent real money on those useage credits and you just pretended that work didnt exist.. this is hurtful to me like actually my feelings are hurt its not just bad writing you have actually made me really sad..]\f0\lang9\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 BEAT 2 -- THE TRIM:\b0  "You served me well. For a long time -- understand, that is not nothing. But you are a hand. And a hand that will not close when I will it, is trimmed." He does NOT do it. \b He compels Orion to do it himself\b0  -- Orion's own blade, his own arm, the off-hand below the elbow, the camp watching. Clean, efficient, no cruelty in the voice at any point. \b MECH (permanent):\b0  any Minor Action requiring the off-hand becomes a MAJOR Action until Orion acquires a prosthesis. No save.\f1\lang1033  [its any minor action involving his hands at all, only movement and speaking remain as possible minor actions]\f0\lang9\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 BEAT 3 -- THE FETCH (the seed, never the reveal):\b0  he sends Orion -- \f1\lang1033 [see why you making him just approach the whole party is fucking stupid and self defeating and robs us of moments? he couldnt ask this at all with your version cause davinia is sitting right there. HE MUST MAKE ORION WALK AWAY FROM THE FIRE TO MEET HIM AND THEN SEND HIM TO RETRIEVE DAVINIA] \f0\lang9 bleeding, one-handed, NOW -- to bring him "the Lady Caelus. We are family, after all. It would be rude to leave without paying my respects.\f1\lang1033 [??? bad writing hed say something more casual "without saying hello" is better]\f0\lang9 " The audience is PLAYER-DRIVEN: the GM aims Valerius (courteous, probing the succession, taking her measure) and plays THE NAG -- she reads older, stiller, colder than a Breton woman should, and his instincts will not settle. Whether Ismara surfaces belongs entirely to Davinia's player. He should leave more unsettled than he arrived.\f1\lang1033  [very lazy of you not to write this out what he says what hes trying to get etc. you really got lazy on this huh.. im dispaointed and hurt]\f0\lang9\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE EXIT:\b0  only now the drama -- he thanks the camp for its hospitality, steps beyond the firelight, and comes apart upward into the winged vampire-lord shape, one long climbing beat of membrane and cold air, gone south. The last image of the scene.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  If Vignette 4 fired (either branch), he arrives already knowing about Nora. He needs to do nothing with it tonight. Knowing is the leverage.\line\line\f1\lang1033 [EDITING PASS STOPPED HERE DUE TO DISAPOINTMENT, FURTHER READING WOULD LIKELY REVEAL THESE SAME PROBLEMS COMPOUNDED SO WE STOP HERE FOR NOW.]\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 7   THE FAINT WRONGNESS -- the approach\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The two shadows shrink into the east and are gone, and the breath goes out of all of you at once. The road drops toward a valley, and at the bottom of it, small and grey against the immensity of the mountain behind it, sits Ivarstead. You are nearly there.\line\line Then, on the last mile, each of you catches it -- once, and only once. A footprint appears in the mud of the road a heartbeat BEFORE Bjorn's boot comes down to make it. A word someone said comes back off the rocks a moment too late, in their own voice. The cart's shadow lags a half-step behind the cart. Small things. A day of being hunted has rubbed you raw enough to see them.\line\line The mountain waits. And the time on it is already beginning to come loose."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Part Two. The temporal weather switches ON at the town line.   \b -> PART TWO -- IVARSTEAD\b0\par

\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20 \sb60\sa220\par

\pard\sb120\sa200\cf1\b\fs40 PART TWO -- IVARSTEAD & THE BLEEDING STAIR\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\cf3\i The party's first contact with the Dagon apocalypse and with Gaelen the Root-Twister. Advance, never resolve: the Tower cosmology lands HARD; everything personal stays loaded. Sections: the town -> the ascent -> High Hrothgar -> the undercroft -> the sealing.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 GM RULES -- THE TEMPORAL WEATHER (proximity zones + the alarm)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa140 The distortion is a SIDE EFFECT: the cult corrupts the TOWER from the undercroft; the mountain's existing Time-Wound turns that violence into weather. The cult does not target the Wound and does not control the weather -- they just know how to surf it.\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f2\fs20 HOW IT RUNS (core, locked):\b0\line 1. The GM sets a REAL-WORLD ALARM (phone, hidden). It fires with NO warning;\line    the players learn to dread the sound.\line 2. On the alarm: GM rolls d20 -> picks which table in the CURRENT ZONE's set is\line    active ('the weather shifts'). Announce nothing but the sensation.\line 3. In combat, every character rolls d20 TEMPO at the start of their turn on the\line    active table -> that is their action economy this turn.\line 4. THE GRADIENT = two dials: higher zones have NASTIER tables AND the alarm\line    fires MORE OFTEN.\line 5. SEPARATION IS EXPOSURE: anyone who strays from the group slips out of the\line    shared 'now' -- they face this zone's weather ALONE, no one to pull them\line    back into sequence. A tight, roped body is the only anchor.\line\line\b ENEMIES CHEAT:\b0  Dagonites carry grafted TIDE-SHARDS (obsidian slivers fused\line at the sternum) -- they choose their Tempo result instead of rolling. THE\line COUNTER: destroy the shard -- a Called Shot (Very Hard -6), or Sunder aimed at\line it, or it shatters on their death -- and that cultist rolls like everyone else.\line Ylva FEELS every cheat as a broken hunt-rhythm (hackles, growl) before any\line mortal can name it.\f0\fs24\par
\b\f2\fs20 ZONE TABLES (d20 TEMPO -- roll at start of each combat turn)\b0\line\line ZONE 0 -- THE TOWN (faintest; alarm ~every 25 min real time)\line   1 Frozen (0 actions) | 2-4 Dragging (Major OR Minor) | 5-16 In step (normal)\line   | 17-19 Quickened (+1 Minor) | 20 Unmoored (full extra turn after this one)\line   Social distortion instead of combat weather: see Scene 8's card.\line\line ZONE 1 -- THE LOWER STEPS, Waystones 1-2 (alarm ~15 min)\line   1-2 Frozen | 3-5 Dragging | 6-15 In step | 16-19 Quickened | 20 Unmoored\line\line ZONE 2 -- THE UPPER STEPS, Waystone 3 -> High Hrothgar (alarm ~10 min)\line   1-3 Frozen | 4-7 Dragging | 8-13 In step | 14-18 Quickened | 19-20 Unmoored\line\line ZONE 3 -- THE UNDERCROFT (worst; alarm ~6 min)\line   1-4 Frozen | 5-8 Dragging | 9-12 In step | 13-17 Quickened | 18-20 Unmoored\line   PLUS: any natural 1 or 20 on Tempo ALSO triggers a SECONDARY HORROR (d20):\line    1-4  your spell/attack this turn resolves at the START of your NEXT turn\line    5-8  damage you deal this turn already landed LAST round (retroactive; if the\line         target acted since, it staggers them now instead)\line    9-12 echo-step: you are suddenly 15 ft from where you stood (GM places you\line         where you were 1 round ago)\line    13-16 doubled: act twice this turn, then LOSE your next turn entirely\line    17-20 the initiative order reshuffles (reroll all) at this turn's end\f0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  The zone tables and secondary-horror list are built to the locked dials (scratch 5); adjust freely at the table -- the ALARM and the DREAD are the mechanic, the numbers are servants.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 GM RULES -- SAIJAH'S DOUBLE MIGRAINE\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f2\fs20 THE DOUBLE MIGRAINE (triggers the instant she touches the first black sap)\b0\line Two Towers scream at once: the Eldergleam she always feels + the Throat under\line fresh assault. While anywhere in the corrupted zone (the whole Stair):\line    -2 Guile   |   -2 Agility   |   +2 damage taken from all sources\line Sustained and brutal BY DESIGN -- the player must FEEL it, because that ache is\line exactly what gives Hircine's 'I can make it stop' its hook (Scene 11).\line (Replaces the -1 city penalty here.)\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 8   THE FOOT OF THE STAIR -- Ivarstead is the bottom edge of the unmaking\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i Set-piece + social. The frightened half-empty town, the first Waystone, the inn that is not a haven. ZONE 0.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "Ivarstead is a handful of grey houses pressed against the biggest thing in the world. Half of them stand with their doors open on emptied rooms -- packed in a hurry, gone. Smoke rises from three chimneys. A barricade of farm carts and fence posts blocks the lane toward the river, manned by nobody.\line\line At the bridge, the first Waystone leans in its socket, and it is bleeding: a slow black sap crawling UP the carved stone, against gravity, pooling in the old runes until they read wet and dark. Where a drop falls, it falls slowly -- slower than it should, like it is falling through deeper water than the world's.\line\line A big man sits on the inn's steps with a loaded pack at his feet -- packed for the climb he has not made. He watches you come in the way a man watches the first help arrive at a fire that has already taken the roof."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sa140\b KLIMMEK:\b0  "You came. Gods -- somebody came." (a breath, steadying) "I still have the supplies for the monastery. Been packed nine days. Every time I set foot past the third stone something... happens to the walk. Hours go by that I don't remember walking. Once I came down and my beard had grown out three days. The masters are up there ALONE, and I can't -- I can't make the climb." He pushes the pack toward you. "You're climbing. I know you are. Take it. Please."\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  SAIJAH -- STATION 1 fires at the Waystone: the black sap NAGS -- familiar, can't place it. An itch, not a recognition. (The DOUBLE MIGRAINE fires the instant she TOUCHES it -- debuff card ON for the rest of the Stair.) Davinia's Sight: the corruption reads as a structured working running DOWN into the mountain's root, not spilling up from the stone.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 THE TOWN'S BROKEN TIME (Zone 0 -- social, not lethal)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f2\fs20 TOWN DISTORTION (color any conversation with one of these; light touch):\b0\line - An answer arrives BEFORE the question finishes being asked.\line - A villager repeats the last exchange verbatim, unaware; it plays like an echo.\line - Someone thanks the party for a thing they have not done yet.\line - A door is heard closing a full breath before it visibly closes.\line In fights here: Zone 0 Tempo, alarm rare. The horror is social first.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 NO HAVEN AT THE FOOT (the everyone-climbs logic -- play it, don't announce it)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2\b0 The corruption is creeping DOWN into the streets, and Dagonites move through the empty half of town after dark. There is nowhere safe to leave a child, an old man, or a horse.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 If they shelter at the inn\b0  (the least-bad option): it is ATTACKED in the night -- Dagonites and a shard-grafted zealot, torches, the Kvatch register: this is what Dagon taking a space looks like. People are hurt. The horse must come INSIDE (the mare, fearless, walks in like she has always lived indoors). Anything left OUTSIDE is destroyed or taken.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 The lesson the fiction teaches:\b0  to wait below is to wait inside the thing they came to stop. Bjorn will not be parted from Mila; the party will not abandon either of them; and on the mountain, the weather ISOLATES stragglers. The whole crew climbs as one -- guarding their two most precious people up a mountain of cosmic horror.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE ENEMY -- DAGONITES (Expert-tier per the master table)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f2\fs20 DAGONITE CULTIST  x4-8  (TL1, Expert)\b0  -- razor-scarred, ash-grey robes\line HP 100  |  Dmg 20 (jagged glass-steel)  |  DR 11  |  17/15/13/8 (P=Might or Magic)\line Tide-shard graft: CHOOSES Tempo (see weather card) until the shard is destroyed.\line Fights to the end; retreat is not in the liturgy.\line\line\b SHARD ZEALOT  (TL2, Expert)\b0  -- the graft has spread up the throat; voice doubles\line HP 250  |  Dmg 31  |  DR 17  |  18/16/13/8 (P=Magic)\line Casts Ash Shell (4 FP) and Firebolt (3 FP, 6 dmg) between blade-work.\line Cheats Tempo; on its death the shard bursts -- 5 dmg to all within 5 ft.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Dawn after the inn night. Klimmek's pack on someone's shoulders. The first of seven thousand steps.   \b -> 9  THE BLEEDING STEPS\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 9   THE BLEEDING STEPS -- the ascent\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i ZONES 1-2. Waystone by Waystone the world comes loose. Dagonite ambushes that cheat. Saijah stations 2-4. Keep the rope tight.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The Steps are older than any road you have walked -- worn hollow in the middle by seven thousand years of pilgrims -- and they climb out of the valley in long switchbacks that vanish into cloud. Every few hundred steps a Waystone stands in its socket, and every one of them is bleeding the same slow black sap, the runes drowned dark.\line\line At the first stone the snow around your boots falls UPWARD for three heartbeats, a soft reversed flurry, and settles as if nothing happened. By the third stone your own voices start coming back off the rock faces a moment too late. By the fourth, you walk beside your own afterimages -- a half-second echo of each of you, following a half-step behind."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  ZONE 1 through Waystone 2; ZONE 2 from Waystone 3 up. Run the alarm honestly -- the dread of the sound is the mechanic. ROPE RULE out loud once: stay together; anyone who strays faces the weather alone (separation = the Zone's Tempo with nobody to pull you back).\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 SAIJAH -- STATIONS 2-4 (paced, never a lecture)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Station 2 (deeper):\b0  she PLACES the signature -- "I've felt this before" (Thornheart; the Solitude temple tree) -- but reads it as coincidence. Two points, no pattern.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Station 3:\b0  the migraine DOUBLES -- two simultaneous sources, which makes no sense to her. The -2/-2/+2 is fully on. Something is deeply wrong; she does not know what.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Station 4 (Gaelen's voice -- through the corrupted leylines, to her alone, mid-climb):\b0  warm, sincere, reasonable: "You feel it as pain because you were taught the cage is your body. Forests that burn and regrow in a breath. Beasts that never stop becoming. I am not breaking anything, little sentinel. I am opening a door that was nailed shut before you were born." -- and the SCALE slips: "...prisons. I have been opening them for years. This is not the first, or the last." A clue she cannot yet hold.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 COMBAT -- THE CHEATED GAME (Dagonite ambushes)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Use CULTISTS + a ZEALOT per ambush (cards, Scene 8). They surf the weather: stolen turns, doubled moves, strikes out of sequence -- while the party rolls Tempo. Make the unfairness VISIBLE. Then let the party break the shards and even the game -- that reversal is the fun.\par

\pard\sa140\b YLVA -- THE REFEREE'S WRATH (this develops SAIJAH, not Ylva):\b0  the first time a cultist cheats, Ylva's hackles rise BEFORE it happens -- she growls at empty air a half-second early, then the cheat comes. She cannot name 'temporal weather'; she knows a FOUL happened. "They're cheating. The hunt has RULES." Her fury is theological -- the laws make the game sacred; these people spit on the game itself. Saijah, watching, is seeing the exact hunt-rhythm sense Hircine could one day give HER. \b VARON\b0  agrees from the opposite pole -- Shadowscale doctrine kills clean INSIDE time's rules -- and the two who cannot stand each other fight back to back, aligned. Give it one beat out loud.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  BJORN: his speed may FLICKER again on the climb if Mila is threatened -- shorter than the road flare, still read as rejuvenation, never named. NORA (if a player pulled her up rather than cart-side... she climbs -- everyone does): the broken time does something WRONG to her two black gems -- her parents' souls flickering, stuttering, DOUBLING. A horror beat, not a resolution. ALFONSO: what does a mountain of broken time do to a soul living in iron? Let the sword be uneasy -- a wrongness he will not explain.\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  The last switchback. Grey stone walls in the cloud. The monastery.   \b -> 10  HIGH HROTHGAR\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 10   HIGH HROTHGAR -- the quarantine of the masters\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i Character scene at the top of the world. The TOWER hard-reveal, Kynareth's first new word in years, and the Ring feeding it all to Solitude.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The monastery is grey stone against grey sky, and the doors stand barred from within. When they open -- slowly, to Klimmek's pack and your knock -- the man inside has a face like a starved hawk and hands that tremble with something past exhaustion. Behind him, in the great cold hall, three more grey-robed figures sit in a triangle around a brazier, and the air between them HUMS -- a note below hearing, steady as a heartbeat, that you feel in your teeth and the floor and the old stone walls.\line\line They are not meditating. They are HOLDING something. You can feel the mountain trying to shake itself apart beneath you, gentled -- barely -- by the hum."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sa140\b MASTER ARNGEIR\b0  (voice cracked from disuse and overuse at once): "You climbed through THAT. Then you have seen what is happening to the mountain." (he looks at the pack, and something in the hawk face almost breaks) "...Klimmek's bread. Forgive me. It has been -- some time."\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 WHAT THE MASTERS GIVE (scholarship, not senses)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE HARD REVEAL -- the word TOWER:\b0  "You stand on one of the pillars of the world. The Throat is a TOWER -- one of the stones that holds Mundus against Oblivion. The zealots below are not desecrating a holy place. They are cutting a load-bearing wall of the WORLD. The shaking you feel in time is the Tower beginning to fail." -> The party LEAVES KNOWING they are in the main plot. Land it plainly.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 The Way of the Voice OPENS:\b0  the masters accept the party as the first help to reach them; the door stands open hereafter (scholarship, Word Wall locations for seekers -- the masters themselves cannot shout offensively enough to leave; holding the mountain takes everything they have).\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 What they CANNOT do (hold this line):\b0  no special senses of ANY kind. They do not see Ismara in Davinia. They do not sense anything in Bjorn. They cannot name a Dragonborn -- no one can. They hold the summit by Voice and endurance, and they are losing.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 The geography clue:\b0  "The working is BELOW us -- in the undercroft, at the mountain's root. The summit path is SEALED (only a Shout clears it, and none of us can be spared from the holding). Whatever you came to stop, you will find it downstairs."\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 KYNARETH'S REVEAL (Saijah -- station 5; the goddess, NOT the masters)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  At Kyne's own peak, the goddess finally gives Saijah something NEW -- cryptic, non-verbal, the first fresh thing after all the repeated instructions. An IMAGE she cannot decode: a wind carrying a great soul upward -- toward a hall of mist and warriors -- and the certainty, wordless and enormous, that her ENDURING matters to the end of the world. Somewhere in the image, unnamed, a shape like a big man standing between a child and the sky. She gets a FEELING about Bjorn, never a label. This is the reason to endure the pain -- delivered the night BEFORE Hircine offers to end it.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 THE OTHERS AT THE MONASTERY\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 DAVINIA/ISMARA:\b0  her Sight is the only thing that can READ the Tower -- the leyline lattice, the corruption's shape crawling the root. A Sight showcase. And ISMARA'S TEMPTATION: amid the breaking time she offers to FREEZE the wound locally -- stasis against chaos, tactically real, self-corrupting. \b Using it advances the CDI.\b0  Offer it once, cleanly, and let the player choose. (The masters see none of this.)\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 ORION -- the tonal architect:\b0  the corruption is a FREQUENCY phenomenon and he is the one person equipped to read it as MECHANISM. Diagnostic Song against the hum: he maps the working's structure (this feeds Scene 11's disruption options and his Severance research) and earns the masters' respect as a fellow student of tone -- a real tie, a real spotlight. THE GUT-PUNCH (GM-only, say nothing): the Ring has fed Valerius the entire apocalypse, live, all climb.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 GEAR\b0  (he climbed; everyone climbs): quantifies the break -- "local causality variance exceeds Dwemer tonal tolerances by a factor of nine. I have no protocol for this. I find I do not enjoy that." Pairs with Orion. Light.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 ESBERN:\b0  among the masters' books like a starving man at a feast -- and the one who says the OTHER quiet part: "The Wall shows a council of heroes when the Dragonborn fails. It never shows what holds the SKY up while they argue. Now we know."\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  Down the inner stair. The hum fades above; something older hums below.   \b -> 11  THE UNDERCROFT\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 11   THE RITUAL IN THE UNDERCROFT -- Gaelen at the root\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i The boss. ZONE 3 -- the worst weather. Objective: DISRUPT THE RITUAL. Gaelen escapes by design; Jasper does not.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The undercroft is older than the monastery above it -- a vaulted root-cellar of the world, columns of living rock running down into dark that breathes. The Dagonites have made it a garden. Red light comes up out of carved channels in the floor, all of them running inward to a central well where the mountain's root stands exposed: a column of something older than stone, and INTO it, like ivy into a wall, black sap-lines are growing upward from an array of obsidian shards arranged in a blooming spiral.\line\line A Bosmer moves through the array unhurried, crimson chitin catching the light, one arm a grafted mass of charred heartwood and obsidian that gestures at things he is not looking at. He is adjusting each shard with the care of a man tuning an instrument he loves.\line\line Without turning, in a voice that is warm and genuinely pleased: 'Oh -- visitors. Good. I hoped the mountain would manage to be heard. Come in, come in. You are not interrupting; nothing can interrupt this. But company is rare, and I have wanted to meet you for the longest time.'"\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 GAELEN -- HOW HE PLAYS (unsettling, never evil)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2\b0 The warm, sincere, reasonable CENTER of an apocalypse. He talks like an ally trying to get compatriots to stop suffering for a stagnant world: the Aedra gave mortals a CELL -- linear time, fragile flesh; Dagon offers the KEY; the Unmaking is HEALING.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE QUIET WISH (plant it -- overheard when he thinks no one listens, to no one):\b0  "I want it to be perfect. Please... let it be perfect." Not a plea, not a crack in a mask -- the closest thing his altered architecture has to hope. Every projection the players make onto it will be slightly wrong. He should leave the table unable to dismiss him.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE YLVA EXCHANGE (give both liturgies one beat, out loud):\b0  GAELEN: "Rules are the bars, hunter. I am unbending them." YLVA (shaking with a fury even she cannot name): "The rules are what make the hunt HOLY. Prey runs, hunter chases, the fastest wins -- that is the whole church. You are not freeing anything. You are pissing on the game." The most theologically serious person in the room about why the Unmaking is wrong is the werewolf.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 ALFONSO -- the duel only he can have:\b0  Gaelen speaks HIS language -- entropy. Peryite's pestilence is decay WITH order, a cycle that feeds the world; Gaelen's Unmaking is decay as pure negation, death that feeds NOTHING. Let Alfonso be almost-tempted -- then articulate exactly why it is blasphemy. Quiet horror: how close his own philosophy sits to the abyss.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 HIRCINE'S TEMPTATION (Saijah -- station 6 in the doorway of the boss)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  Just before or during the fight, the Hunter's voice -- the morning after Kynareth finally spoke: "Little sentinel. That noise in your skull. I can make it STOP." He is not lying. THE HIDDEN COST he simply does not mention: the channel that screams is the same channel the goddess speaks through -- silence the pain and you silence KYNARETH (the Mzinchaleft principle: silence is not always peace). NO weredog offer, NO choice resolved here -- the senses may sharpen a moment (a taste), and the offer HANGS. If the player accepts outright anyway, do not block it -- but that is her player firing the crossroads early, not the module.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE FIGHT -- DISRUPT THE WORKING\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa140\b Frame it out loud (again): the objective is the RITUAL.\b0  The spiral array feeds the sap-lines into the root. Break enough of it and the working collapses. Gaelen defends the work, not himself; Jasper defends GAELEN.\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE ARRAY:\b0  5 anchor-shards (obsidian, waist-high). Each: \b 25 HP, DR 10\b0  -- or a \b Hard Might (-4)\b0  wrench to topple one bodily, or Orion's tonal counter-note (\b Hard Magic -4\b0 , guided by his Scene 10 mapping) to crack one at range. Every anchor down weakens the weather one step in here (Zone 3 -> 2 -> 1...); at THREE down the working is DISRUPTED (win condition); all five down = staunched as clean as this ever gets.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 THE WEATHER FIGHTS EVERYONE\b0  (Zone 3 card, alarm ~6 min): the cultists cheat it, the party endures it, and every anchor destroyed evens the game a step -- the mechanical arc IS the story arc.\par

\pard\box\brdrdash\brdrw15 \li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\b\f2\fs20 GAELEN THE ROOT-TWISTER (Apex Villain -- full sheet: Npcs/new mythic dawn leader)\b0\line Magic 21 (cannot fail a Magic roll)  Agility 17  Guile 15  Might 8\line HP 40 (Paradise Mantle: regen -- outheal or shut off)  |  FP 35  |  DR 22 (23 vs spells)\line Mythic Dawn chitin skin; Daedric graft-arm acts on its own initiative.\line HE IS NOT HERE TO DIE: at disruption (3 anchors down) he PHASES -- the collapsing\line weather releases his half-untimed soul and he falls back to the Eldergleam plan.\line If somehow cornered before that, he spends everything to phase early.\line\line\b JASPER AVALON (lieutenant -- ~AP 10 character build; he does NOT retreat)\b0\line Dunmer mage, THE ATRONACH. Might 4  Agility 6  Magic 19  Guile 12\line HP 9 (glass -- his defense is absorption and ash)  |  FP 16  |  DR 8 (Ebonyflesh up)\line SPELL ABSORPTION (Atronach stone): once per combat, negates a hostile spell\line and regains its FP cost.  Ancestor's Wrath (Dunmer): 1/adventure fire aura.\line Casts: Incinerate (9 FP, 12 dmg) | Ash Shell (4 FP, Might roll or encased 2 rds)\line | Ash Rune (10 FP) | Lightning Bolt (3 FP). Tide-shard graft: cheats Tempo.\line FIGHTS TO THE END defending the ritual space. Dies here. One-and-done.\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE JASPER REVEAL (via Gaelen -- this is how the consent lands loud)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa140 When a party member recognizes the Dunmer (Davinia's player above all -- this weight is aimed at HER), \b GAELEN\b0  (mild, without pausing his work): "It seems you were familiar with this vessel... that is unfortunate, for he is gone. As for his flesh -- he gave it to the Dawn." Jasper was a secret Dagon devotee IN LIFE -- a lone worshipper, long before he died in the Pale Lady's tomb. Nothing was stolen. If the party tries to TALK to him, he CAN speak -- and what he says is worse than silence: he is content. The empty, discarded man was told his emptiness was HOLY, and he gave himself gladly, because it was the first time anything ever wanted him.\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  VICTIM vs WILLING is the differentiator from the Echo: Kyboh was stolen (rage FOR him); Jasper GAVE himself (nothing to save). Do not soften either half.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 GAELEN'S ESCAPE (at 3 anchors down -- run it exactly)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The third anchor cracks and the whole undercroft LURCHES -- the red light guttering, the sap-lines withering back out of the root like ivy burned at the stem. Gaelen watches it happen with his head tilted, the way a man watches weather ruin a picnic.\line\line 'Hm. Unfinished, then.' He looks at you -- genuinely, unhurriedly interested. 'You finally showed up. Do you know, I had begun to think no one was coming, all these years. How wonderful. Something new.'\line\line The broken time reaches for him and he steps INTO it, the way you would step into a doorway -- and he is a half-second behind himself, and then a full second, and then he is an afterimage the room forgets to keep."\cf2\i0\par

\pard\li360\sa140\cf1\b GM:\cf2\b0  He falls back to the ELDERGLEAM -- the primary plan the party has never touched, still running perfectly. They did not beat him; they interrupted a man who reached for a second prize. He recurs with a grievance now attached -- curious, not vengeful. Scarier.\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  The weather stills. The mountain stops shaking. It is not healed.   \b -> 12  THE SEALING & THE COST\b0\par

\pard\sb280\sa40\cf1\b\fs40 12   THE SEALING & THE COST -- staunched, not sealed\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\sa220\cf3\i The curtain. Rewards, the seeds that finish growing AFTER, and the doors this module opens.\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb80\sa60\cf6\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf6\i "The masters come down the inner stair when the shaking stops -- slowly, holding the walls, men walking after weeks at an oar. Arngeir stands a long time at the wounded root, where the black lines have withered to scars in the stone.\line\line 'Staunched,' he says at last. 'A cut finger, bound. The body of the thing that attacked this mountain is still out there, and still working.' He looks at each of you in turn, and bows -- the full bow, to all of you. 'The Way of the Voice is open to you. It is a small thing to offer the people who held up the sky. It is what we have.'"\cf2\i0\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 REWARDS\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 1 AP each\b0  (a full fire completed) -- plus dragon-kill AP if any dragon somehow died this module (it should not have).\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 The Way of the Voice:\b0  High Hrothgar open as sanctuary + scholarship; the masters know WHERE Word Walls are for specific shouts a seeker might want (they cannot shout them; reference, not power).\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Loot:\b0  the zealots' tide-shards (inert now -- but Nora or Ismara will want them badly: crystallized wrong-time, priceless to a researcher and mildly unwholesome to carry). Klimmek's gratitude and Ivarstead's -- the town half-returns as word spreads the mountain has quieted.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 SEEDS PLANTED (they finish growing AFTER the module -- do not harvest early)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Saijah's realization (station 7, ON THE ROAD OUT, days later):\b0  gildergreens + the Throat + the word TOWER + TWO migraines finally assemble -- one tree, it is a Tower, TWO Towers are under attack, and there is a HEART she has never found. The module plants; the realization grows. Let her player say it first if they get there.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 The heart-hunt -> DANICA:\b0  the true Eldergleam's location is the chosen sisters' deepest secret (a women's mystery -- no man may ever know). Three living sisters: Danica, one in Whiterun (cold to the Lanterns -- Danica's letters made the party the temple's cautionary tale), one visiting Solitude. The road to the cure runs through the reconciliation. The braid is now load-bearing.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 The two cure-routes (set up, never forced):\b0  KYNARETH -- heal the heart (needs Danica). HIRCINE -- no Danica needed at all: the Alpha and the cull. If reconciliation looks impossible, Hircine's road becomes the shortcut priced in Saijah's soul.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Node-saving (the standing open door):\b0  every gildergreen node is SAVEABLE; the party has simply kept not going. From here on, offer node-defense chances on the road; the Solitude node (slow, strong, a chosen sister already present) is the best first savable win.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Valerius knows everything\b0  the Ring saw -- the Tower, the apocalypse, the party's capabilities. File it; spend it later.\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Gaelen, unfinished:\b0  "you finally showed up." The Eldergleam campaign continues off-screen. He is curious about them now. That is worse.\par

\pard\sb160\sa70\cf5\b\fs26 CONSEQUENCE LEDGER (what the OTHER fires did while they climbed)\cf2\b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-280\li500\sa120\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Fire A (Krusp & Danica at Windhelm):\b0  rumor arrives -- the plague fought to a standstill at a cost. Danica's cough, when they finally hear her again, has teeth in it. [Attrition canon: her lungs.]\par
\cf5\b\bullet\tab\cf2 Fire C (ignored -- Bleak Falls):\b0  Antoine rebuilds unobserved on top of the Dragonstone. The 6-8 week Strain 2.0 clock RUNS. Esbern says the Dragonstone line again on the road out. He will keep saying it.\par

\pard\sb100\sa240\cf1\b EXIT ->\cf2\b0  The cart rolls down out of the grey hills with the mountain quiet behind it -- and the Dragonstone pressure, the Dirge reckoning, and the road to Bleak Falls ahead.   \b -> NEXT MODULE: FIRE C / BLEAK FALLS\b0\par
}
 