{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Segoe UI;}{\f1\fmodern Consolas;}}
{\colortbl ;\red90\green70\blue50;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1

\pard\sa280\qc\cf1\b\fs24 HOW ALCHEMY WORKS AT THE TABLE\b0\cf2\fs24\par
\pard\sa200\i\fs22 A companion to Ismara's Note One. That note is the story of how she figured it out. This is the plain version of what you actually do when you want to brew something.\i0\par

\pard\sa60\par

\pard\sa200\b\fs24 THE SHORT VERSION\b0\fs22\par

\pard\sa160 Every ingredient carries up to three \b Essences\b0  -- invisible properties ranked by strength: Primary (loudest), Secondary, and Tertiary (faintest). When you combine ingredients, all their Essences mix together in the final brew. Some Essences are \b opposed\b0  -- if two opposing Essences are both Primary in their ingredients, the whole brew collapses and you get nothing. If the opposition is weaker (one side is Secondary or Tertiary), the brew still works, just with those particular Essences dulled.\par

\pard\sa160 If nothing opposes at Primary strength, it works. You always get a result. There is no pass/fail roll for whether a potion comes out -- the roll only decides if it comes out \i better\i0  than normal.\par

\pard\sa60\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf1\sa220\par

\pard\sa200\b\fs24 STEP BY STEP\b0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\b 1. Know your ingredients.\b0\par
\pard\li280\sa160 Before you brew, you need to know what Essences an ingredient carries. You can learn this by:\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa80\bullet\tab\b Rawcraft\b0  -- chew it raw. You taste its strongest Essence (weak effect, brief). The more you know about alchemy, the more Essences you can read from a single bite.\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa80\bullet\tab\b A reference\b0  -- the Codex, a recipe, a teacher, or anything in-world that tells you.\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa120\bullet\tab\b Prior use\b0  -- you've brewed with it before and learned from the result.\par
\pard\li280\sa160 If you brew without knowing what's in an ingredient, you're brewing blind. It will still produce something -- you just might not like what.\par

\pard\sa200\b 2. Pick your ingredients and combine them.\b0\par
\pard\li280\sa160 There is no ingredient limit. Two is common. Three or more gets complicated because you have more pairs to check for opposition, but nothing stops you from trying.\par
\pard\li280\sa160 You need at least a \b mortar and pestle\b0  to brew at all. Without one, Rawcraft (chewing) is all you can do.\par

\pard\sa200\b 3. Check for opposition.\b0\par
\pard\li280\sa160 The five opposed pairs are:\par
\pard\li560\sa80\f1\fs20 VITALIS  (healing)      <->  VENITAS  (poison)\par
GRAVITAS (slowing)      <->  AGILITAS (speed)\par
CAECITAS (concealment)  <->  FULGUR   (lightning)\par
FORTITAS (hardening)    <->  ANIMA    (spirit/mind)\par
IGNIS    (fire)         <->  GLACIES  (frost)\f0\fs22\par

\pard\li280\sa160 For each pair of ingredients you're using, check: do any of their Essences oppose each other?\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa80\bullet\tab\b Both Primary?\b0  The whole brew fails. Everything wasted. Full stop.\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa80\bullet\tab\b One or both Secondary?\b0  Brew works, but those Essences are significantly weakened.\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa120\bullet\tab\b One or both Tertiary?\b0  Brew works fine. Barely matters. Flavor only.\par
\pard\li280\sa160 Anything not on the list of five pairs sits together peacefully. Most Essence combinations are fine.\par

\pard\sa200\b 4. It works.\b0\par
\pard\li280\sa160 If nothing opposed at Primary, the brew succeeds at \b Standard\b0  quality. No roll needed for this part. You made a potion.\par

\pard\sa200\b 5. Try to make it better (optional).\b0\par
\pard\li280\sa160 Roll your \b Guile\b0  against your target number.\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa80\bullet\tab\b Roll 1 (crit):\b0  Exceptional -- the best.\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa80\bullet\tab\b Roll under Guile:\b0  Potent -- stronger than Standard.\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa80\bullet\tab\b Roll over Guile:\b0  Standard -- still works, just no improvement.\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa120\bullet\tab\b Roll 20 (crit fail):\b0  Tainted -- the potion works at Standard, but an unintended secondary Essence also kicks in. Something extra happens.\par

\pard\sa60\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf1\sa220\par

\pard\sa200\b\fs24 TOOLS MAKE IT EASIER\b0\fs22\par

\pard\sa120 Better equipment shifts your starting point and protects you from bad rolls:\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa80\bullet\tab\b Mortar & Pestle:\b0  Required. Without this you cannot brew.\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa80\bullet\tab\b + Retort:\b0  You start at Potent instead of Standard. No roll needed to reach Potent.\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa80\bullet\tab\b + Calcinator:\b0  Roll twice, take the better result.\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa120\bullet\tab\b + Alembic:\b0  A roll of 20 becomes Standard, not Tainted. Safety net.\par
\pard\li280\sa160 With all four tools: you start at Potent, roll with Advantage, and can't be Tainted.\par

\pard\sa60\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf1\sa220\par

\pard\sa200\b\fs24 CONCENTRATION (the ratio trick from Note One)\b0\fs22\par

\pard\sa160 This is what Ismara discovered. When you use \i more copies\i0  of one ingredient, its Essences come further forward in the brew. Fewer copies, and that ingredient's contribution fades to the background.\par

\pard\sa160 The ratio is the instruction. Three parts of something makes its Essences lead. One part makes them barely whisper. Equal parts, and whatever's already strongest wins.\par

\pard\sa160\b Example from Note One:\b0  Blue Mountain Flower carries VITALIS (healing, Primary) and CAECITAS (concealment, Secondary). Luna Moth Wing carries CAECITAS (concealment, Primary) and other things.\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa80\bullet\tab 3 Flower : 1 Wing = healing leads, concealment barely shows.\par
\pard\fi-200\li560\sa120\bullet\tab 3 Wing : 1 Flower = concealment leads, healing barely shows.\par
\pard\sa160 Same two ingredients. The ratio decides what you get.\par

\pard\sa60\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf1\sa220\par

\pard\sa200\b\fs24 WHAT THE POTIONS ACTUALLY DO (numbers)\b0\fs22\par

\pard\sa160 The Essence in the brew determines the effect. Quality tier determines how strong:\par

\pard\sa80\f1\fs20 VITALIS  (healing)       Standard: 4 HP    Potent: 8 HP    Exceptional: 12 HP\par
ANIMA    (magicka)       Standard: 4 FP    Potent: 8 FP    Exceptional: 12 FP\par
VENITAS  (poison)        Standard: 2 dmg   Potent: 4 dmg   Exceptional: 6 dmg\par
CAECITAS (invisibility)  Standard: 3 rds   Potent: 6 rds   Exceptional: 6 rds + undetectable\par
GRAVITAS (slow)          Standard: 1 rd    Potent: 2 rds   Exceptional: 3 rds\par
AGILITAS (speed)         Standard: +2 Agi TN, 3 rds   Potent: +2, 6 rds   Exceptional: +4, 6 rds\par
FORTITAS (resistance)    Standard: +1 DR, 3 rds   Potent: +2 DR, 3 rds   Exceptional: +2 DR, 6 rds\par
  + elemental pair       Standard: half dmg, 3 rds   Potent: half, 6 rds   Exceptional: immune 1 hit then half\par
IGNIS    (fire dmg)      Standard: 3       Potent: 6       Exceptional: 9\par
GLACIES  (frost dmg)     Standard: 3       Potent: 6       Exceptional: 9  (+ blocks FP recovery)\par
FULGUR   (shock dmg)     Standard: 3       Potent: 6       Exceptional: 9  (+ disadvantage on next action)\f0\fs22\par

\pard\sa160\b Rawcraft\b0  (chewing raw, no tools): you get the Primary Essence only, weak and brief. Good for emergencies. Mora Tapinella chewed raw restores 2 FP.\par

\pard\sa60\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf1\sa220\par

\pard\sa200\b\fs24 THE RECIPES YOU ALREADY KNOW\b0\fs22\par

\pard\sa120 These are from Note One, with the numbers attached:\par

\pard\fi-200\li500\sa120\bullet\tab\b Healing:\b0  Blue Mountain Flower + Wheat, equal parts. Clean, no opposition. 4 / 8 / 12 HP.\par
\pard\fi-200\li500\sa120\bullet\tab\b Magicka:\b0  Lavender + Mora Tapinella, equal parts. The Lavender's VITALIS quiets the Tapinella's hidden poison. 4 / 8 / 12 FP.\par
\pard\fi-200\li500\sa120\bullet\tab\b Poison:\b0  Nightshade, alone. Into food or drink. No taste. Hits about an hour later. 2 / 4 / 6 damage. Wary eater gets a Guile roll.\par
\pard\fi-200\li500\sa120\bullet\tab\b Healing (ratio):\b0  3 BMF : 1 Luna Moth Wing. Strong healing, faint concealment at the edges. 4 HP.\par
\pard\fi-200\li500\sa120\bullet\tab\b Concealment (ratio):\b0  3 Luna Moth Wing : 1 BMF. Near-invisible for 3 rounds, or until you act against someone. 1 HP.\par

\pard\sa60\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf1\sa220\par

\pard\sa200\b\fs24 INGREDIENTS YOU HAVE ON HAND\b0\fs22\par

\pard\sa120 From Note One. The Essences are listed so you can check opposition yourself:\par

\pard\sa80\f1\fs20 Blue Mountain Flower   VITALIS [P], CAECITAS [S], FORTITAS [T]       Common\par
Wheat                 VITALIS [P], FORTITAS [S], GRAVITAS [T]       Common\par
Luna Moth Wing        CAECITAS [P], FORTITAS [S], ANIMA [T]         Uncommon\par
Lavender              ANIMA [P], VITALIS [S], CAECITAS [T]          Common\par
Mora Tapinella        ANIMA [P], VENITAS [S], AGILITAS [T]          Uncommon\par
Nightshade            VENITAS [P] only                               Common\f0\fs22\par

\pard\sa160\i As you find new ingredients, add them here. Rawcraft anything unfamiliar to learn its Primary. Study or a reference reveals more.\i0\par

}
