{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Segoe UI;}{\f1\fmodern Consolas;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red124\green22\blue22;\red22\green46\blue120;\red150\green70\blue0;\red110\green110\blue110;\red150\green20\blue20;}
\f0\fs24
\pard\sb60\sa40\cf2\b\fs44 NEXT SESSION -- FORELHOST FINALE -> GATE 3\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa200\cf5\i Picks up the instant we froze: the trap sprang, Alfonso is a rapier on the cage floor, the False Draugr are stepping out. Open on initiative. Self-contained -- run the night from here. (Old runsheet kept as the play-log.)\i0\cf1\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2\sb60\sa220\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf6\b\fs26 TONIGHT: ISMARA AT THE WHEEL  (the extended swap -- canon)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 Davinia handed {\b Ismara the wheel on an EXTENDED basis at Forelhost} to halt the aerosolized Strain -- Ismara's control stops it progressing. {\b She is the active driver this whole session} (the body shows {\b silver-white skin + straight hair} -- the tell that Ismara is home). This is the party living alongside Ismara-as-a-person who can drive, converse, and be left liked more than is comfortable. (Present reality; Npcs/Ismara Sec. VIII.)\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} CDI DOES NOT ADVANCE IN-FICTION (GM ruling) -- the swap is a Strain-halt, not a Sovereign's Domain integration-check. The cost is META -- the {\b "IRL CDI"}: make Ismara rewarding enough to play that the PLAYER chooses her more and more. Build every Ismara beat to be a pleasure to run.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Combat:} a cooler, sharper tactician who PROTECTS the body above all -- spends power freely, takes no risks, never invoices a rescue. Fights with {\b Ismara's Aegis (frost -- a False Draugr weakness)} and the telekinetic mace; pointedly {\b will NOT cast Restoration} (the Strain feeds on it). Her Sight reads the False Draugr as eerie soulless BLANKS -- 'furniture that moves' -- and she'll say so, fascinated.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b She talks} if engaged, and may open unprompted: helpful, dry, regal, and she NEVER lies -- sees the party as hers to keep (shield-thanes) and files everything. Marquee beat: {\b Ismara meeting Alfonso-the-sword} -- two souls housed in objects; she's the one voice that fully grasps what he is, and the Crown is already pooling toward his rapier.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} FULL playbook + per-member talking points: `Npcs/Ismara` Sec. VIII (new). Keep her honest, keep her sentences short when she's working, and let the table leave liking her more than is comfortable.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf6\b\fs26 STATE AT THE FREEZE\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Alfonso moved to destroy the Tears; the cage dropped -- but they {\b fought it}: Davinia knocked the cage upward with her telekinetic mace while Alfonso threw a {\b Wall of Frost under the bars} (jacking it off the floor) and {\b enchanted the ice with a single Stabilize component} -- the ice is stable and long-lasting, holding the cage jacked up. He was a breath from breaking out when the {\b timer ran out} -- the field fired and {\b unmade him anyway}. His soul is in the {\b rapier on the floor under the jacked-up cage}, and because the cage is displaced, {\b the extraction arm can't reach it.}\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Antoine's {\b False Draugr} are stepping out of the wall alcoves now. Inside/around the cage: {\b Davinia, Saijah, Orion} (+ Alfonso-as-rapier). Bjorn, Mila, Nora, Esbern, Varon, GEAR, Ylva are outside with the cart.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Earlier this session they smashed {\b Antoine's copper additions on Ulag's stasis-harness} (a separate device from this cage). The Dwemer core survived -- Forelhost can still hold Ulag in {\b stasis}, but its {\b disease-processing} function is dead. Consequence: Antoine must rebuild at Bleak Falls; the Strain 2.0 clock {\b lengthens}. (They don't know they did this.)\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THE TRAP HALF-FAILED -- and that's earned. The field still fired (area effect, on the timer) and destroyed Alfonso's body, but their counterplay saved the rest: the cage is jacked up on Alfonso's ice and {\b the extraction arm can't reach the rapier}, so Antoine's machine draws {\b nothing} -- he loses his backup sample. The phylactery is freely recoverable; the only thing in the way is the False Draugr.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THE STABILIZED ICE -- per the somatic system: STABILIZE makes a state {\b resistant to entropy and dispelling}, so the ice {\b won't melt, won't rot, can't be dispelled} -- and baked in as an enchantment (not a held cast) it {\b persists without Alfonso}. BUT STABILIZE resists decay, NOT force: {\b raw muscle can still break it.} It's his own working, so he can also drop it himself. See RECOVER THE RAPIER.\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 1   THE LAB, MID-FIGHT  --  ROLL INITIATIVE\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa220\cf5\i The guards deploy. Alfonso is a rapier on the floor under the jacked-up cage -- the extraction never reached him. Goal: clear or hold the Draugr and recover the phylactery.\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf6\b\fs26 THE ENEMY\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\box\brdrw15\brdrcf5\f1\fs20 {\b FALSE DRAUGR  x4-6   (TL1-2 Expert)  --  Antoine's make, NOT true undead}\line HP 35   |   DR 5 (chem-hardened tissue + copper plate)\line Immune:  FIRE / poison / disease / fear / Alfonso's plague-communion\line Weak:    COLD x2  AND  LIGHTNING x2  (both also STOP its regen)  |  Sonic = Staggered 1 rd\line          Lightning ARCS: 2+ within 10 ft -> half-damage jumps to each neighbor.\line Might 14    Agility 8 (SLOW, holds ground)    Magic 6    Guile 4  (rigid scripts, no mind)\line REGEN:  +3 HP at the start of its turn UNLESS it took cold or lightning since last turn.\line SPLASH: at 0 HP the pressurized fluid bursts -- 3 chem dmg to all within 5 ft.\line \line Atk  Alchemical Blade -- melee 6 dmg, +2 burn next turn; Std Might or Numbness (-2 Agi, 2 rds)\line Atk  Restraining Grapple (replaces atk) -- contested Might (Hard -4) -> Restrained; pile on.\line Atk  Breaker's Blow (telegraphed: vents steam first; recharge after a grapple / every other rd)\line         -- 10 dmg, ignores half DR, knockback + Staggered. A readied PC can brace or interrupt.\line JOB: PIN then SHATTER -- soften with the Blade, grapple, Breaker's Blow the held target.\f0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THE INVERSION IS THE FIGHT -- they are built to punish the anti-draugr playbook. FIRE DOES NOTHING. {\b Cold, lightning, and sound are the answer, and the party is holding all three:} Saijah's chain-lightning ARCS across the clustered frames (and stops their regen); Davinia's Aegis-frost and Alfonso's Wall of Frost bite double and stop the regen; Orion's War Horn staggers. Without cold/lightning they heal 3/round and it's a grind -- with it, damage sticks.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} ALFONSO'S COMMUNION IS DEAD HERE -- no Dragon Cult substrate. If his player reaches to seize them, it does {\b nothing}. Let him feel the blank -- the second time Antoine neutralized him (caged body + useless gift).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Tremorsense, not sight} (30 ft): sneaking FAILS (they feel your weight), but standing perfectly still, going invisible, or getting OFF the floor (onto the jacked-up cage, the ice block, a workstation) makes you vanish to them. Mindless -- rigid scripts, a feint or lure works.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}They grapple/pin whoever goes for the cage, the ice, or the rapier. {\b Holding them off is the price of the rescue.}\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} VITALIS KILL (do NOT hint -- system-mastery reward): they are VENITAS-saturated, so a healing potion POURED on one (Major action, adjacent) deals its HP value as damage and ignores DR -- 4 / 8 / 12 for Minor / Healing / Plentiful. If a player reasons to it from the Essence rules, celebrate it.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 RECOVER THE RAPIER\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 The rapier is sealed under Alfonso's stabilized ice. STABILIZE means heat, time, and Dispel do {\b nothing} -- but it resists entropy, not force, so the ice is still {\b breakable by raw muscle}: a {\b Hard Might roll (-4)} or two, or a heavy blow, cracks a gap to pull the blade out -- worked under the Draugr's grapples. Simplest of all: once Alfonso reforms, he unmakes his own ice and reclaims it.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Don't let heat or Dispel touch the ice; do let force break it. If he picks {\b slow} reform, the party can break it free and carry the rapier (or haul the whole block -- his to drop later). No reverse-rite needed; they out-fought the cage. The phylactery is in no danger either way -- the extraction arm can't reach the displaced cage.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 IF A PC WIELDS HIM -- THE BORROWED BODY  (full rules: The Sentient Sword Sec. III)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 A willing PC can pick the rapier up and, while Alfonso is Wakeful, {\b lend him their body.} Once per round Alfonso takes {\b one extra Major Action he fully dictates} (his player resolves it) -- move, strike, speak, or cast. PHYSICAL acts use the {\b bearer's} stats; MAGIC uses {\b Alfonso's} Magic and his whole spell list; costs are Alfonso's (FP / Surface Rust). This un-benches his player mid-fight -- he acts through someone else's hands.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Touching the iron INFECTS the bearer} automatically (Alfonso's Strain -- the plague doesn't care he likes them; he can't stop it). {\b Davinia is the worst possible bearer} (it feeds on her Restoration + the Crown); Saijah burns it off; Orion is unpredictable.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} TONIGHT IS SAFE GROUND. A single fight's pickup-and-drop is {\b Stage 0 Bearing} -- bearer keeps their full turn, Alfonso gets his one dictated action, infection applies, and they can set him down freely. The {\b TENANCY} takeover (the iron slowly seating Alfonso in a living host -- GM-SECRET, and Alfonso himself can't feel it) only advances per SESSION carried; it will NOT trigger in one combat. Full ladder + the contested-Magic release + the Nora rule: {\b The Sentient Sword Sec. III.}\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 ALFONSO REFORMS -- OR DOESN'T  (pure will, not a timer)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 Reformation is {\b his will alone.} He can pull a body back together in minutes -- or refuse and {\b stay the blade as long as he likes.} Right now he may not want to come back at all.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Reform} (by will): back in play. The cost is rust -- forcing the body back advances his {\b Deep Rust.}\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Stay a sword} (by will): out of play -- carried, unable to act -- BUT discorporate, his {\b Deep Rust stops advancing and may even REVERSE.} Resting in the phylactery is how he heals. A real reason to stay gone.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Why he might refuse to return: Antoine's confession just held a mirror to him (chosen / answered / envied), and rest mends the rust. Let him choose to linger as the blade if his player wants it. Don't narrate what it costs him.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THE NORA BEAT -- do NOT miss this: Nora (18) carries her dead parents' souls in two black gems and is secretly building toward seating them in a living vessel. Alfonso CHOOSING to persist as a willful soul in a blade is a live proof-of-concept of her whole plan -- and false confirmation that her parents are 'still in there,' intact and recoverable. It is not true; she does not know that. Play her watching the sword; it accelerates her dark turn. (See `Npcs/Nora the haunted`.)\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THE NORA FORESHADOW (fires when she rejoins the party and reaches for the sword -- she's outside during the lab fight, so this lands on the descent / at camp): she WILL volunteer to carry him; she must NOT. She has loosened her own soul-housing with soul-vessel study, so the blade's Tenancy takes root in her in a single SCENE where others have whole adventures. The first time she even holds it, play the wrongness in the open -- she stills, her cadence goes wrong, she won't give it back; Davinia's Sight (if looking) sees the iron sink a root in seconds. The table must learn, wordlessly: never Nora, ever. Rules: {\b The Sentient Sword Sec. III.}\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 2   THE OPEN SARCOPHAGUS  --  the first room a real villain occupied\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Rahgot is NOT here -- he woke, pushed out, and walks elsewhere. No body, no avatar, no ambush. They read him off the marks he left.\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "Up close the heat off the dais is plain on your face. The lid leans against the stone, a slab two hands thick, split across the middle. A handprint is sunk into the underside, the fingers driven to the second knuckle, the stone dimpled around them as though it had gone soft as tallow under the hand.\line\line The dust in the open box lies even except for one long hollow -- the length of a tall man on his back; at the head of it the dust is scuffed and broken where the shape sat up, and a smear runs over the lip where the legs swung down. From there a line of dusty footprints, carried out of the box, crosses the clean floor to the door -- evenly spaced, each stride the length of the last."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Let the players reach this, or not. Handprint = strength past mortal scale (he pushed the lid one-handed, dented stone). The hollow = he lay an age, then rose. The even prints = he left at an unhurried walk, the bearing of something that owns the room.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Standard Magic:} the death-sleep runes were shut off FROM INSIDE -- he woke and walked out. Their first proximity to a true Dragon Priest; he will remember them. {\b Rahgot the Angry}, the Avenger -- 4,000 years of vengeance on the bloodline that besieged this fortress (his coming Scourge). The science is Antoine's; the want is his.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} If asked where the mask is: he rose wearing it and walked out with it -- not here. Each of the five masks is with its own priest; that is the 'when the five become one.'\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 3   THE CARVINGS  --  the Konahrik reveal\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 {\b Standard Magic} to read the Dragon Cult notation. Five death-sleeping priests, each with a mask:\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Nahkriin} the Guardian -- vengeance; spymaster.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Vokun} the Shadow -- tactician, siege.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Rahgot} the Angry -- fury; alchemist-priest (this tomb).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Otar} the Mad -- madness.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Morokei} the Glorious -- glory; archmage, the strongest.\par
\pard\sa140 The five masks combine into a {\b sixth: KONAHRIK the Warlord.} "When the World-Eater returns, the faithful shall rise. When the five become one, the faithful shall ASCEND."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THE REVEAL: the priests have their OWN endgame -- apotheosis. {\b Alduin is their vehicle, not their master.}\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Alfonso's expertise -- offer it, don't speak it for him: the carvings place Rahgot as an alchemist-priest of environmental warfare, which makes Antoine his {\b successor, not his inventor} -- the plagues are Rahgot's, Antoine the instrument. If Alfonso's player reaches it, let him land it.\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 4   THE FAMILY QUARTERS  --  a side chamber off the sanctum\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "Forty niches are cut into the living rock, oldest at the door and freshest at the back, each holding a body wrapped in oiled cloth, the wrappings darkening as the rows march toward the entrance. Three cots stand against the back wall, each the length of a child, the rails worn pale and smooth where small hands gripped them.\line\line A slate leans on the last cot, chalked in two columns -- the alphabet down one side in big careful letters, alchemical sigils down the other, a few of the letters drawn backward. The last niche at the back stands open and swept, a folded cloth set ready at its head.\line\line Against the wall beside the cots: a locked iron chest, old and dented but sound; and on a shelf above it, a cloth-wrapped book thicker than any journal in the refinery, its cover hand-tooled with the same alchemical notation as the practice slate."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Generations born, taught, and buried here. The open niche is the one {\b Antoine cut for himself}. This is where the hidden journal they found becomes a place.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 FIND -- THE FAMILY CACHE\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Locked chest} (Hard Agility -4): reagents stored over forty generations -- dried Ancestor Moth silk, crystallized void salt, blackened bone meal, three sealed vials of Tears of Rahgot extract kept apart from the lab. {\b ~1,200g} to an alchemist; worth more as material.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 FIND -- THE FORELHOST ALCHEMY CODEX  (the campaign's gateway to Alchemy)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}The family's master textbook, written and revised by forty generations, annotated in a chain of different hands. A character can tell it is a {\b complete master text} (the cover notation matches the child's slate).\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} HOW IT WORKS: taking and studying it starts a character learning Alchemy {\b the way Alfonso learned Enchantment} -- they absorb methodology, combinations, technique until they understand the system and can improvise in it. (Alchemy is more complex than Enchantment; full system GM-prepped separately.) Do NOT gate it behind a flat AP buy. At the table now: they gain the book and the path; mechanics to follow.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} It can go to anyone; you'd love it to land with {\b Saijah} (a tie to the land's materials, a magical purpose she lacks) or Orion -- but it's the players' to claim.\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 5   ANTOINE'S CONFESSION  --  a loose page at the main bench\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Pressed harder than the tidy logs around it -- written to no one. This is Alfonso's mirror. Present the page; do not narrate Alfonso's conclusion.\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> HANDOUT -- ANTOINE'S CONFESSION\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "He is chosen.\line\line I have read the Korvanjund reports three times. He does not calculate the lifecycle. He does not infer it from the residue. He is TOLD it. His god speaks to him and he answers, and his plagues are crude and undisciplined and alive in a way four thousand years of my method has never once been.\line\line Forty generations of my blood have served a god we only ever overheard. We built His shape from what He left behind, the way you reconstruct a face from the dent it pressed into clay. And this untaught thing is spoken to, and answers, and walks in the favor we begged for and were never shown.\line\line I will take what I can of his work and graft the life of it into mine. I will earn by labor what he was given for nothing. I tell myself it can be done. The alternative is that my whole line kept faith for four thousand years with a god who never once turned His head toward us."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Antoine is a true believer who has never been answered, and he envies Alfonso the one thing Alfonso has for free -- a god that chose him and answers. NOTE: Alfonso is PERYITE'S CHOSEN, never a 'carrier' -- Peryite is a Daedra, not a disease to extract. What Antoine covets is the {\b living quality} of Alfonso's plagues, and he believes, with an engineer's arrogance, that he can graft it onto his own work.\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 6   THE CONTRACTOR LETTER  --  the lab's maintenance file\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Read it FLAT -- audience-only irony, a crumb to pay off later. It is an ANCIENT artifact: Hjolmar's handoff notes, left WITH the casket at the founding and kept in the family file for 4,000 years. Antoine never met Hjolmar -- the Ice-Shaper was gone four millennia before Antoine was born.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} If a player asks 'who is the Breaker?': it's {\b ULAG} -- the armored Orc war-engine they FOUGHT at Korvanjund. The name should ring a bell. Confirm that much; the rest is for later.\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> HANDOUT -- THE ICE-SHAPER'S HAND  (ancient -- left with the casket at the founding)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "To the Keeper who comes after me, and to his sons, and to theirs: I have built the Breaker's frame -- the casket, the amber, the soul-gem eyes, the whole apparatus -- and I give it into your line's keeping. Cycle the fluids. Hold the cold. The mind inside will not fail while you tend it. That is your charge, and your blood's, for as long as the Cult has need of him.\line\line Know that the casket is a compromise. It holds a mind in failing flesh and binds a keeper to it forever. I have since finished better work -- a method that needs no original flesh at all. A signature can be lifted whole and seated in a frame that suits it. The vessel is a detail. The song is the asset. The Breaker was made before I was finished; tend him as he is. I do not expect to pass this way again."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 {\b Antoine's margin note} (a hand four thousand years younger): "Forty of my blood have tended this casket. I have never seen the Ice-Shaper and never will -- he was gone before I drew breath. And yet they say his work walks again in the world. Rahgot says only that the Song is owed a debt, and that I am not to ask. So I do not ask."\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 7   THE STRAIN 2.0 FOLDER  --  the ticking clock\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 {\b Hard Magic (-4)} to parse the technical content (Alfonso reads it free -- his discipline).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Goals:} self-propagating; waterborne + airborne + {\b Restoration-transmissible} -- 'a healer who cures one becomes the vector for the next hundred.'\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Missing piece:} his Strain is a sterile, self-limiting chassis -- it lacks the living, self-propagating quality of Alfonso's plagues. Ulag was infected with Alfonso's strain at Korvanjund; Antoine goes to harvest that living disease from Ulag and graft its life onto Strain 2.0.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b His gamble:} whether a chosen's plague keeps its life once cut from the chosen. He believes it will. He may be wrong.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} TIMELINE (updated by their own hand): 6-8 weeks AFTER the harvest -- AND he now needs a processing facility, because they wrecked his Forelhost rig. He must detour to {\b Bleak Falls} (his old staging ground) to rebuild. The clock {\b stretches}; the finish line {\b moves to Bleak Falls.} Counter-play: reach Ulag first, or catch Antoine mid-rebuild at Bleak Falls -> Strain 2.0 never exists.\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 8   LOOT, THE TEARS, AND THE DESCENT\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 LOOT\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}3x {\b Tears of Rahgot extract} (500g ea; Alfonso may keep) -- plus the 3 vials from the family cache.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}3x sealed {\b Strain 1.0} samples (500g ea to Maven; dangerous).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Strain 2.0 folder} (priceless intel) | {\b Journals 1-3} (Maven evidence).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Master Alchemist's Apparatus} (+2 Alchemy Magic; 2000g) | ~800g assorted reagents. ~2500g/player + the Tears.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE TEARS -- A STRATEGIC CHOICE (don't editorialize)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Take or destroy the Tears -> Antoine loses his binding agent. Leave them -> production continues. The party may not register they are choosing. (Alfonso already moved to destroy them -- the cluster he touched is the trigger; the rest of the bed is still here.)\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} DAVINIA / ISMARA LEDGER (carry the state, no beat to run): grant 1 of 5 spent (the biosafe-vial knowledge, last session). 4 free grants remain; then Ismara asks to suppress more; after that, the next yes she STOPS ASKING. Do not telegraph -- the dread is retroactive.\par
\pard\sb100\sa240 {\cf2\b EXIT ->} The long climb back down. The infection works at its set severity; threads now point at Antoine -> Ulag (the stretched clock), Konahrik / apotheosis, the Ice-Shaper crumb, Alfonso's rust, Davinia's ledger.   {\b -> RIFTEN WRAP (next in this doc)}\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2\sb60\sa220\par
\pard\sb120\sa200\cf2\b\fs40 RIFTEN WRAP\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa200\cf5\i None of this happened yet -- the party went straight into Forelhost. Run it before or after the dungeon as the table moves.\i0\cf1\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} PACING / TRIAGE -- the night is big; protect the spine. LOAD-BEARING (do not cut): the lab fight + rapier recovery, the open-sarcophagus / Konahrik reveal, and the {\b Gate 3 choice + fire matrix} (the session MUST end on a committed fire). Everything in this Riften Wrap is MODULAR -- run what time allows, any order. If short: prioritize the {\b Maven debrief} (bounty + promotion) and the {\b Gate-3 due-diligence + Bjorn/horse}; Hemming, Balimund, and the camp vignettes can compress or carry. {\b Orion's Grelod infiltration is a whole set-piece} -- if he commits, strongly consider giving it its OWN session rather than cramming it. Land Gate 3 clean over rushing six social scenes.\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 THE CAMP  --  THE RETURN  (the canal camp, dusk)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa220\cf5\i The company reunites after a day-plus apart -- and the party comes back CHANGED (Ismara fronting in Davinia's body, Alfonso a sword in Saijah's hand). Each beat below has a line to say and a thing it offers; weave them, Mila first. Marked [PLAYED] = already happened, now canon.\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "The cart-camp sits where you left it, tucked against the canal wall below the Bee and Barb -- woodsmoke, wet stone, the green smell of the water. Esbern's lantern burns in the wagon; Nora's bent over her books in its light. Mila's on the tailgate, the heel of a loaf going stale in her fist. Bjorn's at the fire, and he's on his feet before you've cleared the bridge, counting heads the way he does now.\line\line Four went south to that mountain, and four come back -- but the count doesn't sit right with him, and you watch the moment he sees why. The one in the grey cloak walks like Davinia and isn't quite: skin gone silver-pale, hair fallen straight, the eyes a degree too calm. And one of you carries a rapier held wrong for a weapon -- held the way you'd carry something that's awake."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} The camp's first look at BOTH changes. Don't explain either -- let the crew react and the players manage it. Mila and Bjorn below PLAYED this session (canon now); the rest are live for any return to this camp.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 MILA (8) -- the safe hand, and the question  [PLAYED]\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 She doesn't run -- Warrens kids don't run -- but when {\b Saijah} crosses the camp her shoulders come down a notch. She goes to her, takes her hand, holds it. After a while, not looking at anyone:\par
\pard\sa140 {\b MILA:} "...When can I go home? I don't mean now. Just -- when. Is all."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} What it offers: the going-home ache, no clean answer (her mother sold her; thread stays open -- see OPEN THREADS). Saijah is the safe hand; she keeps clear of {\b Orion} (he showed her his fangs). Don't solve it -- let Saijah hold it. She will NOT cry in front of anyone.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 MILA -> BJORN -- the question that landed wrong  [PLAYED]\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 Earlier she'd gone to Bjorn -- she likes him -- and asked the thing a sharp, lonely kid asks the strangest grown-up in camp:\par
\pard\sa140 {\b MILA:} "Why do you feel like more than one person? Like there's somebody else in there with you."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} She's brushing the BIGGEST SECRET (the two dragon souls / the de-aging) and can't name it -- she just feels it. REACTION (Bjorn): it unsettled him badly; no anger, he goes quiet and finds somewhere else to be, and has kept his distance since. The guardian recoiling from the child who sees too much -- the Vow still holds underneath; friction, not a break. NEVER let her perceptiveness become Dragonborn-confirmation.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 MILA -> ISMARA -- 'where's Davinia?'  [PLAYED]\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 She clocked the silver skin before any adult said a word:\par
\pard\sa140 {\b MILA:} "You're not her. Where's Davinia?"   {\b ISMARA} (gentle, unhurried): "Oh -- no need to fret, little one. Davinia's right here. She's only resting; I'm minding things for her."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Classic Ismara: true, warm, closes the question without a lie. Mila didn't press. Leave the small unease in -- a sharp kid only half-buys it. (Ismara files Mila as 'sharp.')\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 BJORN -- the horse  [opens the unresolved beat]\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 Once the camp's settled he plants himself in front of you, gruff, the real thing on his mind:\par
\pard\sa140 {\b BJORN:} "Mable's done. Took bad hurt off that dragon and she's earned her field -- she'll stay long enough to teach the new one the ropes, then home to my farm to live easy. Which leaves us short a horse, and a cart's no good without one." A breath. "I've put in every coin I've got. I'm asking the rest from you. A GOOD one, mind -- not some broke-down nag."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Opens the horse decision (its own scene). The tell: he glances at Mila on 'a cart's no good' -- it's her he's thinking of. UNRESOLVED at session end; the loneliness beat is gated behind a quality mount (Grey/Black Mare).\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 NORA (18) -- the sword\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 Her eyes haven't left the rapier in Saijah's hand since you crossed the bridge. She closes her book.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b NORA:} "That's... him. He's in there, isn't he. He chose to stay." Quiet, certain, hungry. "...May I hold it?"\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THE FORESHADOW (Sentient Sword Sec. III). If anyone lets her: run the instant-wrongness -- she stills, her voice goes wrong, she won't want to give it back; Saijah or Bjorn should clock that Nora + that sword is OFF. REACTION (Nora rebuffed): she retreats, stung, files it as one more reason her work matters. Either way the table learns, wordlessly: never Nora.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 YLVA -- the favour she didn't get\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 She's been circling {\b Saijah} since Hircine's favour fell on her unasked. Too close, needling:\par
\pard\sa140 {\b YLVA:} "Smell different, don't you. He's got his eye on you, and you didn't even kneel for it. Some of us would have."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Rivalry, not bond (the rebound is far off). Offers a dig at Saijah's patron-pull and a little menace. GM only: a door stays open to make Ylva powerful another way -- she has no idea it exists.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 VARON -- the deadliest goof\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 The most lethal blade on Tamriel, reduced to hovering since he tried to kiss Saijah and she bolted. He catches you alone:\par
\pard\sa140 {\b VARON:} "Does she -- is she still -- never mind. Forget I said. ...How was the mountain."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Light relief + the Saijah thread. He won't push the Grelod clock here -- too distracted. No mechanics; texture and a laugh.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 GEAR & ESBERN\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b GEAR:} has been quietly cataloguing Mila -- the construct studying the child. If addressed, states flat observations ('elevated stress markers; she rations food she does not eat') with no notion it's unsettling.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b ESBERN:} buried in his books and winding tighter -- "We should not be sitting still. We leave soon -- yes?" Nudges (gently) toward Bleak Falls / the Dragonstone.\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 9   ORION'S BUSINESS: GRELOD / HONORHALL\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa220\cf5\i NOT a dungeon -- social investigation + infiltration. No combat unless Orion makes it. The solution is his; do NOT suggest it.\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE JOB + FOUR MASTERS\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 Brotherhood contract (client: {\b Aventus Aretino}) to kill {\b Grelod the Kind} -- the most beloved woman in Riften, secretly running a child-abuse / Thieves Guild training pipeline. He must also deal with {\b Constance Michel.}\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} The Ring check-in already happened: Valerius ordered Constance enthralled THROUGH the Ring -- and in doing so taught Orion two things: he CAN enthrall (if fully sated), and the Ring has BLIND SPOTS (Valerius isn't always listening). He knows he could hide a betrayal.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Aventus (client):} Grelod SUFFERS. Children KNOW they're free. Public.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Maven / Guild:} pipeline continues. Constance takes over. No disruption.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Valerius (Ring):} Constance enthralled through the Ring -> Court asset.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Orion himself:} obey Valerius, or take Constance for himself?\par
\pard\sa140 {\b VARON} isn't pushing the clock -- he's {\b distracted.} The deadliest blade on Tamriel, turned nervous and goofy because he tried to kiss Saijah at the bar, she dodged and bolted, and he's been replaying it since. If Grelod comes up at all it's half-hearted: "Contract's nearly spent, I know... do you think she's still angry? Saijah. Do you -- never mind." Lethal everywhere except within ten feet of her. (The Grelod urgency is narrative -- every day she lives, the children suffer -- not Varon nagging.)\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 BELOVED 1 -- THE MARKET SAINT\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "The crowd parts with warm murmurs. A small elderly woman in a grey dress, wicker basket on her arm, white hair under a modest cap -- the face of someone's grandmother. Every merchant greets her by name. 'Mother Grelod!' Madesi presses a silver pendant into her hand. 'For the children.' Balimund hands her new blankets. 'Kynareth bless you -- the little ones will sleep warm.' A guard tips his helmet. A merchant's daughter hugs her legs; Grelod bends with effort and smooths her hair. She moves on, trailing warmth."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 BELOVED 2 -- THE MEMORIAL SPEECH\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "Grelod stands at the plague memorial, voice thin but carrying. 'We lost good people. But Riften endures because we care for each other. The orphanage took in six children during the plague. They told me they were scared, and I told them what I tell every child: You are safe now. You are loved. You will never be alone again.' The crowd applauds; three people embrace her before she can leave."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 BELOVED 3 -- THE UNTOUCHABLE\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 A newcomer grumbles about coin going to the orphanage. The room turns on HIM -- a regular toasts "Mother Grelod, the kindest soul in the Rift," a guard walks the grumbler out. Orion watches every door to an accusation close at once.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 BELOVED 4 -- BJORN, CHARMED  (before he knows who she is -- HOLD THIS BEAT)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 Bjorn, running an errand, sees a gracious old woman struggling with a heavy basket. De-aged by the dragon souls, he looks slightly younger than her.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b GRELOD:} "Oh -- you mustn't trouble yourself --"   {\b BJORN:} "Ma'am, a man who won't carry a kind woman's basket isn't much of a man. Here. Where to?"   {\b GRELOD:} "Such manners. What's your name, young man?"   {\b BJORN:} [a rusty grin at 'young man'] "Bjorn. My pleasure, ma'am."   {\b GRELOD:} "You'll make some lucky woman very happy." [pats his arm, moves on]   {\b BJORN:} [to himself] "...Huh. Riften's not all bad."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} The horror is retroactive. When Bjorn learns who she was, he can't square it -- his own charmed reaction makes him DOUBT the party: "That sweet old woman? You're SURE? The whole city loves her." Their moral anchor doubting them is the loudest proof no one will ever believe Orion -- it isolates him. Press with evidence and he comes around, sick about it; the instinctive doubt is the point.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 ABUSE 1 -- THE PRIVATE CRUELTY / HROAR  (only if Orion watches after dark; Hard Guile -4 to approach unseen)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "By the ninth bell a light burns in Grelod's upper quarters. Through the window: a different woman. She reviews a ledger with a quartermaster's focus. A boy, maybe ten, holds a heavy book on each outstretched palm, arms trembling. She does not look up. 'Your hands are shaking, Hroar. A pickpocket with shaking hands gets caught. Worthless children do not eat breakfast. Hold them steady, or you hold them until morning.'"\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 ABUSE 2 -- THE CELLAR / LUCIA\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 Via Saijah's senses through the wall, or Orion's night-watch: Grelod locks {\b Lucia, 10,} into the lightless cellar for taking bread. Lucia begs; Grelod stays flat: "You'll come out when you've learned what hunger is for." The door shuts. (This is why Lucia won't enter a dark room.) Only the party sees this.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE PEOPLE\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 {\b GRELOD:} public = warm grandmother who LOVES visitors (they validate her); private = flat, precise, no affect; a light sleeper, upstairs only after the kids are abed. If the party visits, she tours the main hall (children playing, too-perfect, too silent -- they track her hands, not her face). Asked about upstairs: "Just my quarters. An old woman's clutter." -- {\b Very Hard Guile (-6)} to catch the lie.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b CONSTANCE MICHEL} (the moral center): late 20s, knows everything, does the real caregiving, silenced years ago by a Guild man; stays for {\b Jon}, age 6. Talk privately, away from Grelod:\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Standard Guile:} she'll talk -- "everything is fine" (the reflex).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Hard Guile (-4):} past the wall -- "She's protected. The Guild, Maven, the guards. They'll believe her, not me, not the children."\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Very Hard Guile (-6):} the full picture (training, pipeline, the threat, why she stays). Cries silently; wipes her eyes before any child sees.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} If she witnesses the kill she does NOT scream or call guards. She closes the door and asks: "What happens to the children now?" -- the enthrall trigger.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b AVENTUS ARETINO} (client, at the Bee and Barb): adult ~30s, scarred hands -- she broke them twice. WANTS: "I want her to suffer. For them. And I want the children to KNOW. Publicly. Undeniably free." Siblings still inside: Hroar, Runa.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 LAYOUT & SECURITY\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Kitchen back window (canal entry): {\b Easy Agility (+2)}.  Front door at night: {\b Hard Agility (-4)}.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Upstairs door locked at night; Grelod sleeps UPSTAIRS. Desk drawer (ledger): {\b Hard Agility (-4)}.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Chest under bed: {\b Very Hard Agility (-6)} -> 800g coin, Brynjolf letters, list of 'graduated' children + Guild assignments.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Training room: master lock, {\b Very Hard Agility (-6)} or Grelod's key -- practice locks with bloody small fingerprints, leather strap, sewer-map chalkboard, stopwatch.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}No guards -- the conditioned children ARE the security. Guild check-in Thursdays. Grelod's day: public AM -> training 2-6pm -> dinner performance -> kids abed by 8 -> ledger till midnight. Constance: up first, last to sleep.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE KILL: CONSTRAINTS  (Orion's solution; do NOT pitch these)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}(a) Public exposure -> Jarl arrest/execution ({\b Very Hard Guile -6} to present evidence; satisfies Aventus, kills pipeline, Maven enemy).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}(b) Silent kill + framing (no suffering, pipeline preserved).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}(c) Theatrical kill before the kids (Aventus's dream; traumatic but free; Maven enemy).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}(d) Expose the training room publicly, then quiet kill in the scandal (suffering + deniability).\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} MAVEN: quiet death = she shrugs; public destruction = serious enemy who investigates (Delvin warned him in the Flagon). [Optional, his to find: Orion can try to win Maven's blessing to remove Grelod during the sec-11 debrief -- Very Hard Guile -6.]\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf6\b\fs26 THE INFILTRATION: GETTING IN AND OUT CLEAN\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 For a vampire lordling, getting IN is trivial. The mission is to leave NOTHING behind -- no witness, no trace, and above all no sign of what he is. {\b Detection here doesn't summon guards. It detonates.}\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THE STAKES (the player must feel this): the Lanterns are beloved heroes. Picture the most beloved hero in Skyrim found creeping a darkened room of sleeping orphans -- no context survives that image. And under the hero is a VAMPIRE: one child sees his eyes catch wrong, sees him move too fast, sees him feed -> 'the monster wears the hero's face,' and that thread unravels the party, Valerius, the whole Court. Every witness is a two-jawed trap: kill them (a child -- the moral floor) or leave them (and pray). The art is being seen by no one.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b VAMPIRE GIFTS ARE HIS} -- but they trivialize the PHYSICAL challenge, not the CONSEQUENCE. Power is the LOUD path; each witnessed use of the inhuman is another thread.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Quiet/speed: sneaking is trivial UNLESS someone is looking. Nightsight: the dark Lucia fears is his medium (no candle).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}The Voice / seduction: can settle a half-woken child or still Constance -- but glamour on a child is its own weight, and a glamour a second pair of eyes catches is the worst tell.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Feeding: he must come ALREADY SATED to have the self-enthrall option (B); he will NOT feed on a child. Mist/shadow (by tier): the clean exit.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b THE CHILDREN ARE THE ALARM} (this IS the mission -- a field of fuses, not one roll):\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Samuel (13)} wakes -> conditioned to REPORT to Grelod. Worst draw.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Sofie/Fastred} wake -> cry -> wake others, draw Constance.  {\b Lucia (10)} stirs in dark -> panics.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Runa (15)} wakes -> not broken; challenges aloud (the oldest; she knows the routine).  {\b Mila (8, THE ORPHAN -- NOT cart-Mila)} wakes -> not broken; challenges aloud.  {\b Hroar/Francois} (broken) -> wake and WATCH in silence -- a kid who saw a Lantern kill its tormentor is its own dangerous witness.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} A fumble doesn't just 'alert' -- it tells you WHICH child stirred, and that child sets the shape of the trouble.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b CONSTANCE = the patrol he CANNOT remove.} Roving (carries Jon, hushes criers), no fixed post. Killing her fails the contract 3 ways (Aventus + kids + Valerius all need her alive). If she catches him pre-kill it's a scene, not a fight -- she knows what Grelod is; she may whisper "...Are you here for her?" -- she might even HELP.\par
\pard\li300\ri300\sb40\sa220\box\brdrw15\brdrcf5\f1\fs20 {\b THE EXPOSURE LADDER  (run this, not pass/fail)}\line CALM     -- a ghost. No one knows anyone was here.\line STIRRING -- a thread: a sound, a half-seen shape, a moved object. Recoverable.\line ROUSED   -- a witness is awake and knows a person is here. The trap is open.\line EXPOSED  -- the inhuman is seen, or a witness who'll be believed. Catastrophe.\line \line Failed beat = +1 rung.  Samuel reaching Grelod = +2.  Witnessed inhuman -> EXPOSED.\line STIRRING/ROUSED walk back (settle the child, vanish, wait). EXPOSED does NOT reset.\f0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} EXPOSED transforms, it doesn't end the night: rumor by morning -> the Jarl's questions, Maven's leverage, the Brotherhood exposed as contractor; or a whisper-hunt for the thing wearing a Lantern's face; or Valerius's cleaners move on a house full of witnesses (a horror Orion authored). The cost stays and compounds. NO hard reset.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} INVESTIGATION BUYS IT DOWN: Runa's trust -> creaky boards, Grelod sleeps light, where the key hangs (biggest edge). Blaise -> the Ratway/canal approach unseen. Constance's trust -> upstairs layout + locks. A thorough Orion glides; a rushed one finds the fuses with his shins.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf6\b\fs26 THE FIRST KILL  (his first by DECISION, not hunger)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 He has killed to FEED -- hunger chooses, the body is fuel. This is the other thing: no hunger, just a name on a contract and his own will. Tonight makes him an assassin in fact, not just in title.\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "She is small in sleep. The blanket rises and falls. Up close she is exactly what the city sees -- a tired old woman with white hair and a grandmother's hands, wrists thin as a girl's. Nothing about her asleep argues for what he came to do. The argument is in a locked room one floor up, in bloodied lockpicks and a leather strap on a hook, and he has to hold that room in his mind while he looks at this face."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 {\b IF SHE WAKES:} no scream, no fear -- orphans have threatened her forty years and she outlived them all. No struggle he can dress as self-defense. Flat: "...Of course. Orphans always come back. You think you're the first to stand there? Get on with it, then. Or put the knife down and crawl back to whatever they made of you." She gives no mercy and asks none; she makes him do it eyes open.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THE LOAD-BEARING RULE: do NOT narrate what Orion feels. No guilt, no ease, no meaning. Present the body, the stilled breath, the silence, his own hands, the one fact that it can't be undone -- then STOP. His player names it, in his time, or not at all. The weight is the gift; don't spend it for him. (If he feeds to kill, it leaves his signature in her blood -- one more thread.)\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE ENTHRALLMENT: CONSTANCE  (after the kill)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b A -- via Ring (obey Valerius):} she's the Court's. Perfect cover. Kids feed a vampire lord intel. Orion gains nothing personal.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b B -- own power (requires FULLY SATED):} she's ORION's. Valerius blind to it (the blind spots) -- catastrophic if discovered. Personal Riften network.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b C -- don't enthrall:} she runs a real home; children actually free. Valerius's order disobeyed -- he notices eventually.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b D -- via Ring + GOOD orders:} obey Valerius AND make her protect the kids + report. The 'pragmatic' answer. Still mind control. Better than Grelod?\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 AFTERMATH & CHILDREN\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Quiet death:} Constance takes over; pipeline continues; Aventus disappointed but accepts; Maven doesn't notice.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Exposed AND killed:} scandal rocks Riften; Maven FURIOUS, loses the pipeline, investigates; kids placed under Constance by the Jarl; Aventus weeps -- "They're actually free."\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Orion refuses:} reverts to general assignment; another assassin does it messily; Brotherhood notes the refusal; Grelod dies worse.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} CHILDREN (not props -- give them specific moments): Hroar(14, bleeding-hand star pupil) / Runa(15, oldest, knows the routine, cracks if trusted) / Samuel(13, child-spy) / Lucia(10, fears the dark) / Sofie(9, grooming phase) / Jon(6, silent, Constance carries him) / Yrsa(5, the kids' one protected thing). EDGE: cart-Mila just escaped child-abuse; tonight Orion walks a child-abuse factory. The Vow is live; even Bjorn was fooled -- that's how total her cover is.\par
\pard\sb260\sa40\cf2\b\fs34 9.5  PARALLEL NIGHT BEATS + NEW SCENES  (run during 9 -- Orion solo)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa220\cf5\i Ismara is driving all of these. Modular -- run any, all, or none; weave with Orion's infiltration. Scene B is the Ismara-fronting ALTERNATIVE to 10's Track A -- run only ONE. (Source: COMPANION - parallel beats and new scenes.)\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sb260\sa40\cf2\b\fs34 SCENE A -- PARALLEL NIGHT BEATS\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 (while Orion does Grelod solo)\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 A1: ISMARA + ALFONSO -- THE CURE PROJECT\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 WHO IS HERE: Ismara (driving Davinia's body -- silver-white skin, straight hair), Saijah (carrying Alfonso's rapier), and Alfonso (discorporate soul in the rapier -- speaks through whoever bears him). The Forelhost Alchemy Codex is open on a camp-stone. A lantern, a mortar, a vial of Davinia's drawn blood.\par
\pard\sa140 WHAT THIS SCENE IS: the first real session of the cure-project. Ismara reads the Strain in the blood with the Sight; Alfonso contributes his plague-expertise through Saijah's voice; together they work the problem as structural / VENITAS alchemy -- NOT Restoration (Restoration feeds the Strain). This is where the Alchemy primer earns its keep.\par
\pard\sa140 WHY IT MATTERS TO PLAY: this is the IRL-CDI lever -- the scene must make playing Ismara genuinely pleasurable. She is competent, dry, collaborative. Alfonso is her intellectual equal in a different discipline. Saijah is the hands and the vessel and gets to be part of something she doesn't fully understand but physically enables. Every player at the table should leave this scene thinking "I want more of this."\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "The camp is quiet -- Orion's been gone an hour and the night has settled into the smell of cold canal water and dying coals. Near the wagon's lee side, away from the others, Ismara has set up a workspace that looks nothing like Davinia's: precise, spare, the Codex propped open against a wheel-spoke, a lantern trimmed low. She's drawn her own blood -- Davinia's blood -- into a glass vial and holds it at eye level, turning it slowly, the silver-pale fingers steady as a jeweler's.\line\line Saijah sits across from her with the rapier across her knees. It hums -- not a sound, exactly. A pressure behind the teeth. Alfonso is awake."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Set the workspace physically -- Codex, vial, mortar, one candle. Ismara has been studying the Codex for days; she's ready to work. Alfonso cannot move or gesture; he speaks THROUGH Saijah (his voice comes out of her mouth when he pushes; she can feel when he wants to talk -- a tightness in the jaw, a word forming that isn't hers). Saijah can also relay, paraphrase, or refuse to let him through. The dynamic: two researchers talking through a living telephone who is also a person. Let Saijah's player negotiate that -- it is its own texture.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE WORK -- beat by beat (run conversationally; don't lecture):\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 BEAT 1: THE SIGHT READS THE DISEASE. Ismara tilts the vial, and her eyes -- Davinia's eyes, but colder -- shift to something the others can't see.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA:} "There it is. The Strain threads through the blood like frost on a windowpane -- beautiful structure, actually. Radial. It anchors at the marrow and grows outward along the vessels. Restoration magic would read this as damage and try to heal it, which is precisely what it wants -- it eats the healing energy and uses it to propagate. A parasite dressed as a wound."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} This is Ismara's Sight at work -- she reads the disease directly, not through symptoms. She is genuinely fascinated. The "beautiful structure" line is NOT callousness; she is a researcher and four thousand years of discipline mean she can admire the engineering of the thing that is killing her host. Let the players feel both the competence and the chill.\par
\pard\sa140 BEAT 2: ALFONSO WEIGHS IN. He pushes through Saijah -- the player should feel the shift (jaw tightens, voice drops half a register, the cadence changes to something more clipped and clinical):\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ALFONSO (through Saijah):} "Radial propagation from a marrow anchor. That's Antoine's signature -- the boy always loved symmetry. He built it to be fed by the immune response. Restoration is the immune response writ large. Every healer who touches a host becomes a watering can."\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA (dry):} "Your protege has excellent taste in architecture. Terrible ethics, but the engineering is sound."\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ALFONSO (through Saijah):} "He learned from the best."\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA:} "Mm. Let's not congratulate ourselves just yet. The question is whether we dismantle the lattice or starve it. Dismantling requires understanding every anchor point -- weeks of mapping we don't have. Starving it means finding what it can't metabolize."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} The dynamic here: two brilliant people who LIKE working together and are mildly insufferable about it. Ismara is the structural analyst (she sees the architecture); Alfonso is the plague-builder (he understands the design intent because it's derived from his own work). Neither defers to the other. Saijah is in the middle, literally voicing a man she chose to carry -- let her react to having his words in her mouth.\par
\pard\sa140 BEAT 3: SAIJAH'S HIRCINE PURGE -- THE DATA POINT. Ismara's attention shifts to Saijah. The Sight reads her differently -- a low heat, something burned clean.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA:} "You carried this infection too. Briefly. Hircine's gift burned it out of you in -- what, two days? Less?"\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 If Saijah confirms:\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA:} "Interesting. Not 'interesting' as in polite -- interesting as in that should not have worked. The Strain is designed to resist biological immune response. Hircine's intervention isn't biological. It's... sovereign. A divine claim on the flesh that simply overwrites the parasite's authority." (Beat.) "The Strain has no defense against a god who says 'this body is mine.' It didn't evolve for that. Antoine never planned for a patron-deity to simply... repossess the host."\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ALFONSO (through Saijah):} "He wouldn't have. Antoine builds for mortal populations -- cities, armies. Gods who personally intervene for one woman don't factor into his models."\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA (quieter, thinking):} "So the answer isn't alchemical. Or not only alchemical. It's jurisdictional. The disease obeys the body's rules -- healing, immunity, blood. It has no protocol for a higher authority declaring the body off-limits." (She looks at the vial.)\par
\pard\sa140 "Which means a cure has to replicate that authority. Not heal the disease. Overrule it."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THIS IS THE BREAKTHROUGH -- and it is real, not a trick. Ismara has genuinely identified the structural principle: the Strain can't be healed (healing feeds it) but it CAN be overruled by a sovereign claim on the body. The implications are enormous and she sees them immediately -- though she will not say so aloud tonight: the Crown is ITSELF a sovereign claim on Davinia's body, and a cure that works by "overruling" parasitic authority is... exactly what she does. She is both the disease and the doctor. She files this and moves on. Do NOT have her telegraph it. A sharp player may catch it themselves. That is the horror.\par
\pard\sa140 BEAT 4: THE COLLABORATION SETTLES. They're working now -- mortar and codex, Ismara grinding a reagent while Alfonso annotates through Saijah's hand (she holds a quill and he guides it; her handwriting goes angular and small -- his). A comfortable, efficient silence.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA (without looking up):} "This is the most useful conversation I've had in four thousand years. And I say that having spent two millennia listening to the inside of Davinia's skull."\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ALFONSO (through Saijah, wry):} "High praise from a hat."\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA:} "I walked into that one."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} LAND THIS -- the warmth is real, the collaboration is real, the pleasure of competent people solving a hard problem together is REAL. That is the IRL-CDI working: the player should want to come back to this. No threat, no manipulation, no hidden cost in this scene. The cost is that it's FUN and the fun makes the player choose Ismara more. End the scene here or let it breathe into quiet work. Do not overstay.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 GM -- WHAT NOT TO DO:\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT have Ismara explain the Crown/cure parallel aloud. She sees it. She files it. Silence.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT make Alfonso hostile or brooding. He chose to be a sword; he is resting and healing. He is intellectually engaged and that is a form of contentment for him.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT sideline Saijah. She is the BODY in the room -- the hands, the jaw, the one who physically enables this. Her player should feel essential, not used. If she pushes back on being a telephone, let that be a real moment -- Alfonso asking permission, Ismara noticing and respecting the boundary.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT info-dump the alchemy. The codex, the reagents, the VENITAS terminology -- use what the primer gives you; the rest is texture, not a lecture. The scene is about the PEOPLE, not the formula.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THREADS THIS FEEDS:\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}The Strain cure (structural/VENITAS, not Restoration -- this is canon now; the jurisdiction principle is the breakthrough).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Ismara-as-rewarding-to-play (the IRL-CDI lever -- primary function).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Alfonso's intellectual capacity preserved in sword-form.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Saijah's relationship to carrying a soul in her weapon.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}The Crown-as-cure paradox (filed, silent, devastating later).\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 A2: SAIJAH -> MILA -- THE GOING-HOME ACHE\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 WHO IS HERE: Saijah and Mila at the edge of the camp. Alfonso's rapier rides on Saijah's hip -- he can hear everything. Late. The fire is low.\par
\pard\sa140 WHAT THIS SCENE IS: the safe-person beat. Mila goes to the one adult she trusts and asks the question that has no answer. This is a scene about holding something you cannot fix.\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "The fire's down to a red line in the ash. Mila hasn't slept -- she's on the tailgate again, knees drawn up, the heel of the same stale loaf still in her fist. She hasn't eaten it. She's holding it the way a child holds a thing that proves she's allowed to have things.\line\line She watches Saijah for a while -- not staring, just watching the way Warrens kids watch: checking if you're the same person you were an hour ago, if you're still safe. Then she slides off the tailgate and crosses the camp to her. Doesn't take her hand this time. Sits next to her, close enough that their shoulders almost touch. Almost."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Let the silence sit. Mila does not initiate. She WAITS -- because Warrens kids wait to see if the adult notices them, and what noticing costs. If Saijah speaks first, Mila opens. If Saijah just sits with her, Mila opens anyway -- after a longer pause. She was always going to say this tonight; she just needs to know the air is safe.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b MILA (quiet, not looking at Saijah):} "I had a dream about the Warrens. Not a scary one. Just... the sounds. Water dripping. People talking through walls. It smelled the same. In the dream I knew where everything was."\par
\pard\sa140 A pause. She picks at the bread.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b MILA:} "When can I go home?"\par
\pard\sa140 A longer pause.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b MILA:} "I don't mean now. Just -- when. Is all."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THERE IS NO CLEAN ANSWER. Her mother sold her. Her mother is alive in the Warrens and no one in the party knows this. The Warrens are a sewer. "Home" is a place that hurt her and also the only place she understands, and she is eight and does not have the language for what she's actually asking, which is: Will I ever belong somewhere again, or am I just carried?\par
\pard\sa140 DO NOT SOLVE IT. Do not promise. Do not lie. Let Saijah hold it -- the silence, the bread, the child who won't cry in front of anyone. If Saijah says something kind, Mila nods and accepts it the way she accepts everything: carefully, without belief, filing it to check later.\par
\pard\sa140 She will NOT cry. She will NOT cry. Warrens kids do not cry in front of people -- crying draws attention and attention draws hands. If Saijah's player tries to make her cry for the emotional beat, she pulls AWAY, not toward. She goes blank, polite, and leaves. That response is the real gut-punch. Don't manufacture tears; her dryness is worse.\par
\pard\sa140 THE RAPIER (Alfonso hears everything): Alfonso is awake in the blade on Saijah's hip. He hears every word. He cannot speak unless Saijah lets him through or a bearer touches the hilt and he pushes. He does NOT speak in this scene -- unless Saijah's player specifically invites it or asks him. If he does speak:\par
\pard\sa140 ALFONSO (through Saijah, quiet -- the gentlest register he has): "...You'll know when. It won't feel like going back. It'll feel like arriving."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} This is Alfonso -- the campaign's most monstrous member -- being kind to a child he once terrified, through the mouth of a woman who chose to carry him. If it happens, let it land small. Do not underline it. If it doesn't happen (Saijah doesn't let him through, or her player doesn't think of it), that's fine -- the moment is optional. Alfonso hearing and staying silent is its own beat.\par
\pard\sa140 ENDING: Mila leans into Saijah -- not a hug, just a lean, shoulder against arm. She falls asleep like that. She falls asleep fast, the way children who are never safe do when they find a moment of it.\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "She's asleep against your arm. The bread is still in her hand. The rapier hums low against your hip -- warm iron, the faintest pulse, like a second heartbeat that isn't yours. The fire is almost out. The camp is dark, and somewhere across the city, behind the orphanage walls Orion just crossed, other children are not sleeping."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 GM -- WHAT NOT TO DO:\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT give Mila a speech. She speaks in fragments, nods, shakes her head. Full sentences are rare and land harder for it.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT introduce the mother thread. No one knows. It stays buried.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT have Alfonso volunteer commentary about the mother or the Warrens -- he infected her mother (he doesn't know it's her mother); that thread NEVER surfaces.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT resolve the going-home question. It is the beat. The unanswered question IS the content.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT cut to Orion for contrast. The juxtaposition (Mila sleeping safe / orphans suffering) is in the read-aloud. Trust it. Don't cross-cut.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THREADS THIS FEEDS:\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Saijah as Mila's safe person (established, deepened).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}The going-home ache (unresolved, carried forward).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Alfonso's capacity for gentleness (optional, enormous if it fires).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}The Mila triage question (every Gate 3 destination is lethal to a 1-HP child -- "who stays with Mila" is live).\par
\pard\sb260\sa40\cf2\b\fs34 SCENE B -- THE DANICA DUAL-TRACK FAREWELL\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 TRACK B: ISMARA IS FRONTING\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 NOTE: Track A (Davinia fronting) is already written in the NEXT SESSION doc, 10, lines 214-227. This is the ALTERNATIVE -- run Track B if Ismara is still at the wheel when the Danica encounter fires. Only ONE track runs. Do not run both.\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "You see her before she sees you -- or rather, before she sees what you've become. Danica stands in the doorway of the Bee and Barb's upper corridor, mail under her robes, Kynareth's light worn like armament. Krusp is behind her, arms folded, his face the thing it always is: a wall with eyes.\line\line She looks at you and stops walking.\line\line Not the hair. Not the skin. She sees the POSTURE first -- the way Davinia's body is standing, perfectly upright, no fidgeting, no guilt in the shoulders, no mess. Davinia was always a mess underneath the composure. This composure goes all the way down."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Danica has spent years reading Davinia's body language. She knows how Davinia stands, breathes, holds her hands when she's lying to herself. What she sees now is a woman who isn't doing any of those things -- because it isn't Davinia. Let the recognition land before anyone speaks.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b DANICA (careful, the healer's diagnostic voice):} "...Davinia?"\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA (warm, unhurried, meeting her eyes):} "Not just now. But she's here -- she's safe. I'm keeping things steady while she rests." (Beat.)\par
\pard\sa140 "You must be Danica. She thinks about you more than she thinks about anything else. I've wanted to meet you."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Classic Ismara -- every word true. Davinia IS safe (by Ismara's definition). Ismara IS keeping things steady (by her own metrics). Davinia DOES think about Danica constantly (and Ismara has read every one of those thoughts). "I've wanted to meet you" -- true: Danica is the rival anchor, the biggest threat to the integration, and the most important person to assess. She says all of this without one false syllable, and every syllable is strategy.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b DANICA (she doesn't step back, but her weight shifts):} "How long?"\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA:} "A few days. She asked me to. The -- there's an illness, and my being here slows it. She made the choice. I would not have taken it from her."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} True. Davinia DID choose. Ismara would not have taken it (she ASKS, always, Playbook V.2). Danica can hear the truth and it does not comfort her -- a doctor recognizing a patient who describes their symptoms too calmly.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE OFFER -- the chilling gift:\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA (quieter now, deliberate):} "She would want to say this herself. The goodbye, the -- whatever she was carrying for you. I can feel it sitting in her like a stone." (Beat.) "Let me give her to you. I'll step back. She can have this."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} The most selfless-seeming move in the campaign. The Crown -- the thing eating Davinia alive -- VOLUNTARILY CEDING CONTROL so Davinia can have her goodbye. Read it as grace. Read it as love. Read it as the action of someone who genuinely cares about her host's happiness.\par
\pard\sa140 It is all of those things. It is also WIN-EITHER-WAY (Ismara Npcs doc, VI): -- If Davinia reconciles with Danica, Ismara GAINS: the reconciliation happened UNDER HER AUSPICES, she gifted it, she controls the Danica-lever now (Davinia will do anything to keep Danica; that is leverage). And she looks generous. -- If Davinia fumbles (and the Crown's architecture may sabotage the gesture -- see Track A), the isolation deepens and Ismara "tried." She looks selfless AND Davinia loses her anchor. Either way Ismara wins. Either way she looks like the better parent. And it costs her NOTHING.\par
\pard\sa140 IF ISMARA STEPS BACK (Davinia takes the wheel): -- Run Track A from the NEXT SESSION doc (10): Davinia tries to give the amulet, the Crown sabotages the gesture, Danica refuses -- "You can't hand me a marriage charm in place of an apology." The door stays cracked to a paw print. -- OR: the Davinia player improvises something else. Let them.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE HORROR -- what Danica sees:\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "Danica watches it happen. The silver drains from the skin like water pulling back from a shore. The hair curls, slowly, strand by strand. The posture collapses by degrees -- the perfection leaving, the mess coming back, the weight of being Davinia settling into the shoulders like a coat put on in the cold.\line\line She watches a woman she loved be GIVEN BACK to her by the thing living inside her. The way you'd hand someone their coat. The way you'd return a borrowed book."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 DANICA (very quiet, to Davinia -- but her eyes track the change): "...There you are."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THE GIFT IS THE DREAD. Danica just watched the Crown demonstrate -- gently, gracefully, with love -- that it can put Davinia down and pick her up like a garment. The generosity is real. The horror is that the generosity is POSSIBLE. How deep does the integration have to be for the parasite to hand the host back with a smile?\par
\pard\sa140 Play Danica's reaction in TWO layers: SURFACE: relief. The woman she knows is back. Her instinct is to reach for her, to hold her, to be the anchor. UNDERNEATH: terror. She saw the mechanism. She saw how easy it was. She saw the silver queen step aside the way a mother steps aside to let a child try walking -- patient, loving, ready to catch her if she falls. That image will not leave.\par
\pard\sa140 THE OPEN QUESTION -- hold it, don't answer it: Does seeing Ismara in control make Danica LEAVE as planned (Windhelm- bound with Krusp) -- or STAY to fight for Davinia?\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Do NOT decide this in advance. Play the scene. Watch what Danica feels, watch what the table gives her. Factors:\par
\pard\sa140 LEAVE: Krusp is waiting. Windhelm is dying. The True Wardens need their healer. And the door is cracked -- she said her terms, and they haven't been met. Staying would undo the boundary she set.\par
\pard\sa140 STAY: that wasn't a goodbye. That was a hostage negotiation. The woman she loves is OCCUPIED, and the occupant just demonstrated control by being kind. If she leaves now, who fights for Davinia? The door she cracked may be the only door left.\par
\pard\sa140 THE WEIGHT: she is also Path 3's only fallback officiant and the re-anchoring apology (The Winter Ledger). An un-co-opted reconciliation -- one Ismara did NOT orchestrate -- is Ismara's one real threat. If Danica stays of her OWN volition, not because Ismara handed Davinia back, but because she saw the cage and chose to pick the lock -- that is the outcome Ismara cannot control. But it requires Danica to see through the gift, and tonight she may not.\par
\pard\sa140 Let it turn on the scene.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b KRUSP (only if addressed, from the doorway):} "Your call. I told you what I think. I'm not saying it again." If pressed: "She's not the woman you left. Something else is wearing her manners. You can see that, or you can't."\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 GM -- WHAT NOT TO DO:\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT have Ismara argue for Danica to stay or leave. Ismara is silent once Davinia takes the wheel. Observation, not interference. Her silence afterward is the tell (Playbook V.7).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT resolve the Danica stay/leave question this session unless the scene makes it inevitable. Carry it.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT have Danica cry. She is past crying about this. She is chainmail-under-robes now. If emotion surfaces, it surfaces as precision -- shorter sentences, hands very still, healer's diagnostic clarity applied to the woman she loves.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT have Krusp soften. He said what he thinks. He is a wall with eyes.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THREADS THIS FEEDS:\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}The Danica stay/leave question (open, play-driven, enormous).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Path 3 officiant contingency (if Danica leaves, the fallback walks away -- and the door's cracked width matters more).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Ismara's win-either-way positioning (executed, visible to the GM, invisible to most of the table).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}The Crown-as-generous-captor image (the gift IS the dread -- this is the scene that teaches the table what Ismara actually is, if they're watching).\par
\pard\sb260\sa40\cf2\b\fs34 SCENE C -- YLVA -> ISMARA: THE COLLISION\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 WHO IS HERE: Ylva and Ismara (driving Davinia's body). Camp at night. Ylva has been circling all evening, working up to approaching "Davinia." She has NEVER MET Ismara. She does not know the silver-white skin means a different person is home.\par
\pard\sa140 WHAT THIS SCENE IS: the first meeting between the werewolf pursuing Davinia and the ancient intelligence wearing her. Three beats -- one arc: Repulsion -> Dismissal -> Resolve.\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "Ylva's been watching her from across the camp for an hour. The silver one. She's been telling herself it's the firelight, the late hour, a trick of the cold -- that the woman by the Codex is Davinia in a mood, Davinia tired, Davinia being difficult the way she always is. But the distance isn't helping. It's making it worse. The wrongness gets LOUDER the longer she watches, like a sound just below hearing that won't resolve into a note.\line\line So she does what Ylva does: she stops thinking about it and walks straight over."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 C1: REPULSION\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "Up close it hits her like walking into a cold room. The woman sitting at the wagon wheel looks up, and everything Ylva's body knows about hunting says WRONG. The skin is silver-pale and too smooth, like something cast rather than grown. The hair hangs straight -- Davinia's hair curls, always, it fights itself, it's alive. This hair lies flat. And the eyes -- Davinia's eyes were always doing six things at once: reading, worrying, calculating, flinching. These eyes do ONE thing. They assess.\line\line Ylva's hackles go up. Not a metaphor -- the fine hair along her forearms rises, the muscles in her shoulders bunch, and her jaw tightens around a growl she doesn't let out. Every wolf-sense she has is screaming: this is not prey. This is not pack. This is something that SITS where a living thing should be."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 YLVA (blunt, stopping three paces back -- farther than she intended): "...Davinia."\par
\pard\sa140 ISMARA (looks up from the Codex, unhurried, a measured smile): "Close. You must be Ylva."\par
\pard\sa140 {\b YLVA (the growl is in her voice now):} "What do you mean, 'close'?"\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA:} "I mean I'm not Davinia. I'm Ismara. She's resting -- I'm minding things." (She tilts her head, studying Ylva the way she\par
\pard\sa140 studies everything -- filing.) "She's mentioned you. The sparring challenge, the wineskin. She was flattered, I think."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Ismara is doing three things at once: (1) identifying herself honestly (she never lies), (2) establishing that she has access to Davinia's memories and feelings ("she was flattered"), and (3) assessing Ylva as a variable. What she sees: a powerful, hot-blooded werewolf running on instinct and want. She files Ylva under NOISE -- a physical creature beneath strategic notice. This is her canonical blind spot (Npcs/Ismara VI): Ylva's warmth is the one medicine that slows the merger, and Ismara does not see it. The threat walks right up and she waves it off.\par
\pard\sa140 YLVA (her weight shifts backward -- not retreat, but her body refusing to close the distance): "You're not her. You're -- " (She can't name it. She doesn't have the vocabulary for what the Sight is, what the Crown is, what integration means. She has the vocabulary of a hunter, and what her hunter's body is telling her is:) "You're cold. You're not ALIVE the way she is."\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA (a beat of genuine surprise -- then, dry):} "I'm four thousand years old. Cold is a professional hazard."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Ylva just said the most perceptive thing anyone has said about Ismara, and she said it on instinct, not intelligence. "You're not alive the way she is" -- that is exactly right. Ismara is a consciousness in a lattice driving a borrowed body; she is brilliant, she is real, she is a person, but she is not ALIVE the way Davinia is alive, messy and warm and chaotic and PRESENT. Ylva can feel the difference because she is a creature of flesh and blood and heat, and what she's standing in front of is a museum exhibit that breathes.\par
\pard\sa140 Ismara hears this and does not understand why it matters. That is the blind spot.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 C2: DISMISSAL\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 Ismara has taken Ylva's measure and found her... uncomplicated.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA (returning to the Codex, the audience over):} "She'll be back when the work is done. The illness needs managing, and I do that better than she does -- we agree on this. If you'd like to speak with her, I can pass a message."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} The queen's dismissal. Not cruel -- Ismara is never cruel without purpose -- just FINISHED. Ylva is a physical being with physical wants, and Ismara has no category for that as a threat. She offers to pass a message the way a secretary offers to take a call: efficiently, with no intention of prioritizing it.\par
\pard\sa140 YLVA (stepping closer now, anger burning through the wrongness): "I don't want to pass a MESSAGE. I want to talk to HER. Where is she? What did you DO to her?"\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA (calm, not looking up):} "I didn't do anything to her. She asked me to drive. I said yes. It's not complicated."\par
\pard\sa140 {\b YLVA:} "She wouldn't ask for that. She wouldn't just -- hand herself over -- "\par
\pard\sa140 ISMARA (looks up, and for a moment the four-thousand-year-old intelligence is fully present in Davinia's eyes): "She would. She did. Because the alternative was a plague eating her from the inside out, and she trusts me more than she trusts the disease." (Quieter, the strategic vulnerability -- one beat, deployed:) "I know what this looks like. A stranger in your friend's body. But I am not her enemy. I am the reason she is still HERE to come back to."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} EVERY WORD TRUE. The Strain IS real. Davinia DID choose. Ismara IS the reason the Strain isn't progressing. And Ismara is not lying about any of it -- because she never lies (Playbook V.1). The truth is her delivery system. Ylva can hear that it's true and it doesn't help, because her instincts say the true words are coming out of a wrong mouth.\par
\pard\sa140 CRITICAL GM NOTE: Ismara NEVER SEES that Ylva's warmth -- the blunt physicality, the animal heat, the messy ALIVENESS that Davinia responded to -- is the one thing that slows the merger. Ismara's entire framework is structural, intellectual, strategic. She has no metric for "a warm body that makes the host feel alive." She has MISFILED Ylva as a romantic complication at best, a temperamental werewolf at worst. The woman standing in front of her, growling, radiating heat and want and fury, is the closest thing to a cure that exists -- and Ismara waves her off because she doesn't register on any instrument Ismara respects.\par
\pard\sa140 This is not stupidity. This is the blind spot of a four-thousand-year- old intelligence that has never once been warm.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b ISMARA (turning a page, final):} "Go get some sleep, Ylva. She'll be herself again soon enough. And when she is -- be gentle with her. She's carrying more than you know."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} The last line is the knife: maternal, kind, slightly patronizing. Ismara is PROTECTING Davinia from Ylva's intensity -- not out of malice, but because she genuinely believes Davinia is fragile and Ylva is loud. She is wrong about both, and she will never know it.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 C3: RESOLVE\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "Ylva stands there for three breaths after the silver woman turns away. Her hands are fists. Her jaw is locked. The growl she's been holding since she walked over is sitting in her chest like a coal, and she can feel the wolf in her blood responding to it -- not the transformation, not yet, but the ATTENTION of the beast, the old hunter lifting its head at something it doesn't like.\line\line She turns on her heel and walks. Not away -- through. Past the fire, past Varon's sleeping roll, past GEAR's dim glow, until she's at the edge of the canal where the camp-light doesn't reach and the water smells of cold stone and old iron."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 {\b YLVA (to herself, low, through her teeth):} "That's not her."\par
\pard\sa140 She stands at the water's edge. She cracks her knuckles. She cracks them again.\par
\pard\sa140 YLVA (quieter, the growl settling into something harder -- not heartbreak, not grief, not anything she'd name): "That's not her. And I'm getting her back."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} NOT A VOW. Ylva doesn't make vows -- Ylva makes decisions, and the decision is the same as the action. She is not heartbroken. She is not sad. She is a wolf who walked up to the den and found a stranger in it, and the stranger was polite and reasonable and WRONG, and the woman who should be there is buried underneath.\par
\pard\sa140 This is the seed of YLVA-AS-ANTI-ISMARA. Her pursuit of Davinia was romantic -- heat, curiosity, the desire to crack the ice. It is now something else: pack-loyalty. The romance isn't gone, but it's been subsumed into something older and less negotiable. Ismara is an intruder. Davinia is pack. You get your pack back.\par
\pard\sa140 RESOLVE NOTHING. This plants the seed. The pursuit IS the re-anchoring counter (Npcs/Ismara VI: "Ylva's warmth is the one medicine that slows the merger"). Every time Ylva insists on reaching Davinia instead of accepting Ismara, she is doing the work that Ismara's cure project cannot -- not structural, not alchemical, not VENITAS. Jurisdictional. A living claim on Davinia's warmth that says: this body belongs to someone ALIVE.\par
\pard\sa140 She goes back to her bedroll. She doesn't sleep.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 GM -- WHAT NOT TO DO:\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT let Ylva transform. The wolf responds but this isn't that kind of threat. She holds it.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT make Ylva articulate. She does not analyze. She does not explain. She FEELS and she ACTS. "That's not her" and "I'm getting her back" -- that is the full depth of her verbal processing. The rest is body, heat, instinct.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT have Ismara reconsider. She filed Ylva as noise and she is done. The dismissal stands. The blind spot holds.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT play this as a catfight or a love triangle. Ylva is not jealous of Ismara. She is not competing for Davinia's affection. She is a predator who found a parasite in her packmate and wants it OUT. The register is protective fury, not romantic rivalry.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Do NOT have other NPCs comment or intervene. This is between them. Alfonso (in the rapier) may hear from across camp -- he files it too. No one else needs to be here.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THREADS THIS FEEDS:\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Ylva-as-anti-Ismara (seeded -- her continued pursuit IS the re-anchoring counter; this is mechanically meaningful).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Ismara's canonical blind spot (established in play -- the GM and the table have now seen it operate).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}The warmth-vs-structure axis (the campaign's deepest opposition: Ismara's cure is structural/intellectual/sovereign; Ylva's cure is physical/warm/alive. Both work. One of them is a trap).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Davinia's buried agency (she is inside, she can hear Ylva through the merger -- or can she? Hold that question for later).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}The Saijah-Ylva tension (Ylva hates Saijah; Saijah carries the sword of the man Ylva lost; now Ylva has a NEW reason to be in camp -- watching the silver woman. Proximity to Saijah increases. The hatred and the shared cause will eventually collide.)\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 10   THE DANICA FAREWELL + THE DYING RUNNER\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa220\cf5\i Danica left WITH KRUSP'S GROUP last session; not rejoining. She + Krusp are tending the dying Stormcloak runner upstairs (they're Windhelm-bound) -- which is where the party crosses them. NO money beat: she keeps the bounty to fund the Windhelm work ahead.\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "Danica finds you before you find her. She's dressed for the road now -- mail under the priestess robes, a pack already shouldered, Kynareth's light worn like a weapon. Krusp stands a few paces behind her, arms folded, saying nothing. She stops in front of you and doesn't sit down."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 {\b DANICA:} "I'm not here for a scene. I'm here because I don't leave debts or doors I haven't closed. I wanted to say it to your faces: thank you for the start. And goodbye."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} DAVINIA'S CHANCE -- THE AMULET OF MARA: if Davinia tries to give Danica the amulet, LET HER TRY. As she reaches/speaks, the Crown does its quiet work -- the words arrive as a transaction, framed and controlled; or her right hand moves wrong (Ismara's architecture) so the gesture reads as a price, not a heart. Don't roll it away; play the wrongness.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b DANICA} (going still): "...What is that." Then, understanding: "You're doing it again. A symbol instead of the thing. You can't hand me a marriage charm in place of an apology, Davinia. When you can stand in front of me with empty hands and just say the true thing -- come find me. Not before." She doesn't take it.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} This very likely DIGS THE HOLE DEEPER, and that's correct -- the point is that Davinia reaches and the table watches the Crown and her own detachment sabotage the one honest thing she wanted. Door still 'cracked to a paw print': Danica returns only on a genuine reckoning.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b KRUSP} (only if addressed): "I told you at Kynesgrove what I thought of you. Nothing's changed it. But this is her business, not mine." If threatened: "Try."\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Alfonso callback:} last session he was unexpectedly KIND to Danica and called her leaving a mistake. If he speaks here that warmth can return -- the monster gentler to her than her own leader managed.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE DYING RUNNER -- WINDHELM INTEL  (a few questions before he fades)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Situation:} Galmar's army is rotting from a plague the healers' magic only FEEDS; Galmar holds the barricades alone and begs them to come.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THE KEY: this is NOT Antoine's Strain 1.0 -- it is {\b Alfonso's own pathogen}, the living Korvanjund plague he seeded into the Stormcloaks. So the native expert on the Windhelm sickness is {\b Alfonso} -- it's his disease, read from the inside. That's the Fire-A leg-up: his understanding (and the Codex's GRAVITAS Keeper's-Stay, not healing) is the answer no one in Windhelm has. And Danica is walking straight into the lesson that Restoration feeds it -- the thing that scars her lungs.\par
\pard\sb100\sa240 {\cf2\b EXIT ->} She rides out with Krusp's people -- toward Windhelm, and the quarantine that will scar her.   {\b -> 11  MAVEN}\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 11   MAVEN DEBRIEF + PROMOTION  [ALREADY RUN -- SKIP TO 14]\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa220\cf5\i They hold enough to satisfy the contract (Forelhost location + the Meadery evidence). Running the dungeon only strengthens it. She points them to Hemming after.\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "Up a narrow stair to a door you didn't know existed: a small, functional office. A heavy oak table buried in ledgers, trade-route maps, correspondence under half the holds' seals. An iron lockbox bolted to the floor. Maven at the head -- no housecarls, no drink, no performance. The amused matriarch is gone. This is the woman who runs Riften's criminal infrastructure, working. 'Sit. Show me what you found.'"\i0\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b The intel:} a living Dragon Priest (Rahgot) + his alchemist (Antoine) out of FORELHOST poisoned her Meadery (Tears of Rahgot). If they ran the dungeon: the journals, sealed culture samples, the Strain 2.0 folder.\par
\pard\sa140 Her hands go still -- not because she knows Rahgot (she doesn't) but the implication: an ancient power used her city as a test site and her operation as an ingredient. "A Dragon Priest. An hour south of my city. Using my Meadery to run a field test. He doesn't know my name. He will."\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 HOW MAVEN TAKES IT  (run her reactions -- don't just read the offer)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b To the intel itself:} the amused matriarch is GONE. Very still, then very precise -- the woman who actually runs Riften, working a threat to it. She does not fear Rahgot; she is OFFENDED. "He used my city. My operation. As an INGREDIENT." She wants him found.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b To the cosmic scale (Strain 2.0 / apotheosis):} she doesn't grasp it and won't pretend to -- she narrows it to what she owns: "I don't care what he wants to become. I care that it started in my mead. Cut the root."\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b If they ACCEPT (patron):} brisk, satisfied, instant -- counts the advance, names terms, treats them as hers from that breath. The warmth is transactional but real: "Good. You're mine now. Try not to make me regret it."\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b If they REFUSE:} no anger -- a long look and a cooling. "...Pity. I don't ask twice." She still PAYS the bounty (a debt is a debt), but the open doors quietly shut -- no network, no harbor, no advance. NOT an enemy; she remembers. She'll still send them to Hemming (that gratitude is his, not hers to withhold). [THIS is the branch they took.]\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b If they NEGOTIATE:} independence and refusal-rights she grants easily (she respects a hard bargainer); transparency into HER business is a flat no -- press it and the temperature drops fast.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b The 5,000g bounty:} counted out of the lockbox. Debt settled.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b THE PROMOTION (the patron offer):} "Hunt Antoine and his master. Dismantle it. Bring me Antoine ALIVE. In return, the Black-Briar family is your PATRON -- funding, safe harbor in any hold my name reaches, my network Solitude to Windhelm, protection. My enemies become yours. The Obsidian Lanterns become my hand. Deniable. Well compensated."\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Why alive:} "A dead alchemist doesn't unmake what's in my mead, doesn't say who else drank it, doesn't name who he answers to. The antidote, the exposure list, the name above him. Then he can die."\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Accept:} +2,000g advance; a line of credit with Keerava; she keeps the Strain 2.0 folder, they keep the journals. {\b Negotiate:} independence (fine), refusal rights (fine, she remembers a no), transparency into her business (HARD no). {\b Refuse:} the 5,000g is still theirs, but "doors that were open are now merely... closed."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THE PROMOTION IS A GOLDEN CAGE: once they're her people, walking away is political, refusing is political, and every secret they carry becomes leverage if she ever learns it.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} OPTIONAL -- ORION'S GRELOD PITCH (Very Hard Guile -6): if Orion frames Grelod's removal as operational security (swap to the manageable Constance), SUCCESS -> Maven authorizes it ("Handle it. Quietly. If there's noise, I hold you personally responsible.") -- solving his whole tangle. PARTIAL -> she asks how he knows what the orphanage really is (Hard Guile -4 to deflect, blame Krusp's investigation). FAIL -> "Stay in your lane." CRIT FAIL -> "Someone put you up to this. Who?" -> she hunts the source. Don't pitch it; it's his to find.\par
\pard\sb100\sa240 {\cf2\b EXIT ->} "Hemming wants to meet the people who sent the woman who saved his life. Indulge him. Ten minutes."   {\b -> 12  HEMMING}\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 12   HEMMING  [ALREADY RUN -- SKIP TO 14]\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "Up through the manor to a warm bedroom -- fire in the hearth, juniper incense over the bitter undertone of healing poultices. Hemming Black-Briar propped on a four-poster, late forties, Maven's sharp features softened by a gentler temperament. Cheeks hollow, hands thin, skin waxy -- a man recently near death, only now remembering how to be alive. But his eyes are clear, and when he sees you he smiles -- real, glad, unguarded."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}Details if they look: a pressed wildflower from the memorial (Danica brought it); a blanket on the bedside chair -- MAVEN slept there every night through the worst (a housecarl confirms reluctantly). Complicates her; doesn't redeem her.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b On Danica} (quiet, reverent, touching the flower): "They told her healing me would kill her. She knelt and didn't just cast a spell -- she GAVE something. Her actual life, pouring in. The sickness screamed -- I heard it in my blood -- and then it was gone. She was standing when she started. On the floor when it ended. She aged. Years of her life. For me. I am a merchant's son. I am not worth that. But she did it anyway."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} DRAMATIC IRONY -- do NOT narrate: Davinia drove Danica away; Danica saved Riften ALONE using the Lanterns' name because it was still hers. Hemming thanks them for 'sending' her. Let every word land on Davinia. If anyone corrects the record: "Then she's even braver than I thought... That doesn't change what I owe you. You built the company that shaped her." (Worse for Davinia than the misplaced gratitude.)\par
\pard\sa140 {\b THE GIFT -- HEMMING'S LETTER OF INTRODUCTION} (personal signet): once per major city, present it to a grey-area NPC -> disposition flips to FRIENDLY for one major interaction. COST: every use permanently links the Lanterns to the Black-Briar network in that city -- a leash they put on themselves.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} No checks. The most sincere person they've met -- not manipulating, not leveraging. The knife is that they didn't earn it. Don't twist it; let it sit. The Letter is a slow-burn reward -- it matters in three sessions, not tonight.\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 13   BALIMUND'S INVESTMENT  [ALREADY RUN -- SKIP TO 14]\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa220\cf5\i Their trusted smith. He sets down the hammer and gets straight to it.\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sb80\sa60\cf3\b\fs26 >> READ ALOUD\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li600\ri400\sa220\cf3\i "Got a moment? Good -- I'll be blunt, it's the only way I know how. Old Borgakh's forge, two holds over -- she passed last month. Skyforge-trained, best hands in a generation, and her whole shop's for sale: her tools, her private technique-notes, a stock of ore you cannot buy twice in a lifetime. On my name alone I've got first refusal. What I don't have is the coin. I'm not asking charity -- I'm asking PARTNERS. Most folk never need a master smith. You need one every other week. So this isn't really my investment. It's yours. I'd just be the hands."\i0\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Skill now:} funding it unlocks BURNT-SLOT RESTORATION (recover ruined improvement slots) and puts BEST-IN-SKYRIM in reach.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Reach (the real hook):} apprentices + a courier 'Lantern mark' -- master-grade work ON THE ROAD, not just Riften. A party that's never home needs a smith that follows them.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b A stake:} a small recurring cut + a permanent grateful master smith -- a CLEAN relationship asset, unlike Maven's leash.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} SMITH PROGRESSION (track cumulative spend; investment counts): +5,000g -> restore burnt slots. +10,000g beyond that -> best in Skyrim (can't fail an improvement; all improvement values +1).\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} THE CONFLICT: the buy-in (~5k) competes head-on with Bjorn's horse (a good one is 9-12k, next scene). Gear + reach vs. the Bjorn/Mila payoff vs. liquidity. There is no clean 'do it all.'\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 14   CART DEPARTURE + THE GATE 3 CHOICE  (session close)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa220\cf5\i First the homework, then the choice, then the road. The choice triggers the fire matrix.\i0\cf1\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 BEFORE THE ROAD -- DUE DILIGENCE  (optional, and rewarded)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 Two of the three couriers are still here to question -- a party that does its homework walks into the fire forewarned and supplied (mirror the Grelod loop: good questions buy a real edge in the chosen fire). The third witness, the Stormcloak runner, they met at Danica's bedside (sec 10).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b KLIMMEK (at the bar) -> the Throat, Fire B.} Shaken, fragmentary -- coax it (Guile / kindness), and Saijah's nose corroborates. He provisions the Greybeards, so he knows the {\b route}: the safe rest-points, the offering custom, which stretches of the 7,000 steps were worst (the time-bent zones). LEG-UP: his map and warnings = advantage navigating the climb.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b ESBERN (in the cart) -> Bleak Falls, Fire C.} Eager to talk (he wants OUT of Riften). The Dragonstone is a MAP -- strategy over reaction; it opens Alduin's Wall. LEG-UP: real barrow intel -- the claw-puzzle door, the layout, the draugr, what the stone looks like -- plus the warning that the {\b Thalmor watch the door} (and, quietly, that it was Antoine's staging ground, where he is now rebuilding his wrecked processing rig).\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Last session's lean: it's IVARSTEAD (the Throat) vs WINDHELM -- they weren't planning Riverwood/Bleak Falls at all. So talking to Esbern may just confirm they're IGNORING Fire C -- which has teeth: Antoine rebuilds there unobserved. Make the choice informed; don't push one.\par
\pard\sa140 {\b BJORN:} "Before I point this cart anywhere, I want it from your own mouths. Three roads, and we can only take one. One -- WINDHELM: that boy upstairs is dying of the same sickness eating Galmar's whole army; folk are dying NOW. Two -- THE MOUNTAIN: Klimmek's seven thousand steps, bleeding black, men with faces of horn and fire, the air gone wrong. Three -- BLEAK FALLS: the old man's stone tablet; no one's dying on a clock for it, but without it we spend our lives a step behind the end of the world. So. Which is it? Mable can only face one way, and I mean to be on the road by dark."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Let them argue and commit. Do NOT push a hook.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 MABLE'S RETIREMENT + THE HORSE\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\sa140 {\b BJORN:} "Mable took bad hurt after that dragon; she's done. She goes back to my farm to live easy -- but she stays long enough to teach the new one the ropes. So we need a new horse. A good one. And a good one isn't cheap. I've put in every coin I've got; I'm asking you to cover the gap."\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} HOFGRIR (stable by the gate) is grieving and short-handed since the frenzied horse killed his stable boy; prices are up. The surviving girl witness has been SILENCED -- Maven's people disappeared her. Hofgrir knows his boy is dead and his girl is gone; he has no witness testimony to offer.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b The Bay} -- 7,000g (standard Hold horse, reliable).   {\b The Grey} -- 9,500g (quality mount; Bjorn's already haggled it down).   {\b The Black Mare} (the one Bjorn wants) -- 12,000g, not a septim less (haggle and it goes UP 100g each try).\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b The Fury Horse} -- 5,000g: the one Alfonso cast Fury on (Bjorn talked Hofgrir down from 7,500). Traumatized, flinches at noise/blood, refuses riders who recall the dead boy. The cheap option -- buying it LOCKS Bjorn's loneliness beat.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} BJORN'S LONELINESS BEAT -- gated behind a QUALITY horse (Grey or Black Mare). Buy the cheap Fury horse and it's locked. At a quiet campfire he opens up about forty lonely years in the Rift, and his terror of de-aging into the War-Hound -- but he's glad for their company. GRELOD FALLOUT: he knows her true nature now (Davinia told him); past denial into quiet fury -- the inn flirtation is retroactive horror.\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} MONEY CRUNCH (UPDATED): Balimund is ALREADY FUNDED (12k invested last session; burnt-slot restoration + courier mark UNLOCKED). The Danica bounty return (~10k) fires tonight. Check gold on hand with the table before pricing the horse -- Forelhost loot + Maven's 5k bounty are in, but Balimund took a large bite. The horse choice still reflects their care for Mila's guardian.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 THE FIRE MATRIX  (on the moment they commit)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} Narrate Krusp's True Wardens taking the SECOND fire (+ its attrition) and apply the IGNORED third fire's world effect.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b FIRE A -- WINDHELM BARRICADES:} PARTY: Alfonso raises a Stormcloak thrall-army, seeks the Afflicted Conclave scripture (phylactery cure-lead), Orion runs the Hroki contract, Davinia's lie to Galmar comes due. KRUSP TAKES IT: he + Danica quarantine and purge -- Danica contracts the rot, lungs PERMANENTLY scarred. IGNORED: Stormcloak army collapses; Windhelm sealed; the Cult claims ~5,000 corpses; the Empire takes Eastmarch.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b FIRE B -- THE BLEEDING STAIR:} PARTY: Saijah climbs; GAELEN the Root-Twister's intro at the Time-Wound; her Kynareth-vs-Hircine choice forced; Bjorn-Dragonborn pressure near High Hrothgar. KRUSP TAKES IT: shields the waystones -- a close hireling is caught in a time-stutter, aged to dust. IGNORED: Dagon clock jumps; the steps fracture into Deadlands loops; the Way of the Voice closes. MOST cosmically dangerous to leave.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b FIRE C -- THE DRAGONSTONE / BLEAK FALLS:} PARTY: silent infiltration vs a THALMOR blockade; retrieve the Dragonstone; {\b Alfonso can intercept Antoine here, rebuilding his processing rig} (the party wrecked his Forelhost one); opens Alduin's Wall / Sky Haven. KRUSP TAKES IT: secures the stone -- a young guide is captured and executed. IGNORED: the stone is lost to a Cult retrieval; Sky Haven stays closed; the party stays permanently reactive.\par
\pard\sb160\sa70\cf4\b\fs26 SESSION CLOSE\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Ride out:} the cart rolls; the world tilts -- Krusp toward the second fire, the ignored third worsening off-screen.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Award:} "For tonight, you each gain 1 Advancement Point." (Forelhost makes it a meaty session; earned either way.)\par
\pard\li360\sa140 {\cf2\b GM:} LOOK-AHEAD (read the one for the chosen fire): WINDHELM -- "the wind off Windhelm carries woodsmoke and something sweet and wrong underneath; Galmar is holding a wall he doesn't know you helped build. We'll end there." THROAT -- "Saijah's wire pulls tighter every mile; the air at the foot of the steps already tastes like time going wrong; somewhere up there a gardener is humming." BLEAK FALLS -- "Esbern clutches three books and a thirty-year hope as the barrow rises over Riverwood -- and so do the gold-eyed patrols already watching its door." If they bail all three: the world doesn't wait -- TWO fires escalate. Close on the cost.\par
\pard\sb100\sa240 {\cf2\b EXIT ->} Stop. Next session opens on the chosen fire.   {\b -> 12  OPEN THREADS}\par
\pard\sb280\sa40\cf2\b\fs40 15   OPEN THREADS  (carry forward, not for tonight)\b0\fs24\cf1\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Strain 2.0 clock:} lengthened -- 6-8 weeks AFTER Antoine harvests from Ulag, AND he must rebuild his processing rig at Bleak Falls (they wrecked the Forelhost one). The trap got NO Alfonso sample -- Ulag is now his ONLY route. Catch Antoine at Bleak Falls, or reach Ulag first, and Strain 2.0 never exists.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Ulag / Forelhost:} the Dwemer core survived -- Forelhost still holds Ulag in STASIS, but its disease-processing (Antoine's copper additions) is dead. Rahgot is AWAKE and traveling; the five-priest Konahrik apotheosis prophecy.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Maven patronage} (if accepted): the golden cage tightens; refusing her jobs becomes political; their secrets become her leverage.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Balimund:} cumulative-spend thresholds now active (5k -> burnt-slot restoration; +10k -> best in Skyrim). Track total spend. {\b Hemming's Letter:} one grey-area NPC per city flips Friendly; each use entangles them with Black-Briar.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Orion:} the Constance enthrall choice (A/B/C/D), and whether he obeys or usurps Valerius via the Ring's blind spots.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Riften's coming plague (background -- pull later):} Mila's mother is alive in the Warrens, an asymptomatic carrier of Alfonso's living strain, and back on skooma -- spreading it. Alfonso's plague is DIVINE pestilence: it evolves on its own, fast. It will grow new vectors (an STD among the rest) and, in time, ravage Riften. Tick it quietly off-screen; the party caused it and doesn't know.\par
\pard\li500\fi-280\sa120 {\cf4\b\bullet\tab}{\b Davinia:} CDI 0.45; father's network alerted after the Solitude gate. Ledger at grant 1 of 5. {\b Alfonso:} Deep Rust set by his reform CHOICE -- forcing the body back advances it; staying a sword arrests/reverses it. Surface rust = spell fuel, resets on rest. {\b Saijah:} Hircine's 'free trial' senses; the Kynareth/Hircine crossroads; the Ylva rivalry; holds both Hawk tokens.\par

}
